TITLE: David Shor and Byrne Hobart on the Politics of a White-Collar Wipeout | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 3323  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-24T12:39:31+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZWVJ0vwPsI8
SHA256: 17e6eec49e6f0be9c7e1818168a58b94b0674a88cf14952e006e6925f147ecd8

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [10%] top one or the top 10%. The economists
  [5%] something like 5% of the public is
  [15%] think in December I spent maybe like 15%
  [1925] And if it were 1925 and you're trying to
  [70%] 70% of the population says that it's
  [2025] in is it March? March 2025.
  [1920] investor accounts from the 1920s and
  [1926] 1926 to say I'm going to invest in this
  [35%] Only 35% of the public think feels that
  [60%] it stands something like 60% of the
  [13%] public has used these tools 13% of the
  [2000] in 2000 and it's been I guess you know
  [2016] there were internety issues in 2016 and
  [2020] 2020 but it's it's becoming less and
  [3%] because of AI but if like 3% of people
  [2032] um in, you know, the year 2032 or
  [1040] taxes for you know does a thousand 1040s
  [0.7%] is that if you look at the 0.7% of the
  [150000] up to $150,000. We're going to make sure
  [98%] it tested better than like 98% of the

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
Weisenthal.
Southwest recently.
any barbecue in Austin, but we did have
some really good Mexican food. We did
have really good Mexican food and we
recorded a really fun episode of our
podcast.
recorded a good episode.
listeners. We did a live episode of the
podcast talking about sort of the
prospect of mass white collar
displacement due to AI as well as the
politics and how politicians should be
thinking about this and how voters are
thinking about this. Our guests were
David Shore, founder of Blue Rose
Research, and Burn Hobart, who writes
the excellent DIFF newsletter and a
general partner at Anomaly Fund. Take a
listen.
Sunday morning.
recording of the OddLots podcast. This
is definitely going to be the most
uplifting of all the conversations that
have happened this weekend, right?
We are
really good about [laughter]
we have uh two great guests. We are
going to be speaking with David Shore.
He is the founder of Blue Rose Research
political consultancy pollster knows a
lot about AI and we have Burn Hobart,
the founder of the DIFF, a great
newsletter that everyone should read and
a general partner at Anomaly Funds. And
we're going to talk about all things AI
and job loss potential and the politics
of it and so forth. And so, David and uh
Burn, thank you so much for uh joining
us on stage here.
question. David, you're pretty like this
is happening now. The economy is going
to look radically different maybe even a
year, 18 months from now and you're
trying to wake politicians up. This is
happening right now. But like tell us
what's happening right now or what's
about to happen.
I don't I don't want to claim I'm one,
but you know what I'll say is that I use
AI a lot. I use cloud code a lot. I
think in December I spent maybe like 15%
of my pre-tax income on cloud code
overage fees. [laughter] And I think
there's a real disconnect among my
friends between, you know, people who
use cla code and people who don't where
I could really feel the extent to which
I can do so much more now versus a month
ago and a month before that. Like the
scale at which these things are getting
better and the speed at which things are
getting better is really jarring. And I
think you might not notice that if
you're just using chat GBT like you know
chat GBT is like a little better than it
was a year ago.
predictions about the future but I do
think that if if things continue to
improve on this scale then things could
get really weird really quickly.
talk to you is because you're sort of at
the intersection of technology and
finance. If I look at the valuations of
big tech at the moment and a bunch of
the AI companies, they basically suggest
that they're going to take over the
entire economy. When you see those
numbers, what do they suggest to you
about the future of labor?
true that we're think you can think of
this coherent category of this is an AI
company or this is a non this was a
non-AI company, but they're
incorporating AI and they have these
distribution advantages, so they'll
probably do well at that. But I think
that it's a mistake to think that this
is a a durable discreet category in the
same way that you could refer to a lot
of companies as electricity companies.
And if it were 1925 and you're trying to
figure out which stocks to buy and
you're just really really bullish on
electricity, then you you would really
really care that RCA is exposed to
electricity and I don't know, US Steel
is mostly not. But eventually every
company becomes an electricity company
just in the sense of you would run a
very different business if the lights
did not turn on. And so it like gets
subsumed by the rest of the economy. And
you see that with software too where
there just a lot more companies that
have software developers and are writing
software for internal use. And they're
not software companies per se. You know,
they're restaurants or like tractor
companies or whatever, but they have
that element. And so I think that's
that's part of what you see just early
in the roll out of any general purpose
technology is that you have a lot of
really narrow specific bets and then
over time the impact gets so widely
distributed that it's very hard to trace
and you have to kind of go back and look
at the history and look at things like
okay the rise of the car leads to the
rise of the suburb but it also leads to
the rise of the grocery store because or
like the the supermarket where you can
have a much larger selection and that
means lower labor cost per unit sold and
that means lower cost overall and that
works if people are not walking to get
their groceries. It doesn't work if
people are walking and it's like a
daily, you know, stop on the way home
from work or something. So, we will
probably see a lot of those weird kinds
of outcomes. Like, I think if you're
thinking about the risk to a given
career, I think for most of the careers
people worry about, the average like the
mean compensation goes up, the median
compensation of people who are in that
industry right now, the median
compensation they get from being in that
industry probably goes down where a lot
of people get washed out. But this has
happened before. Like the spreadsheet
did not eliminate investment banker or
accountant as a job. It actually made it
a more lucrative job. But it also made
it a more measurable one where you just
can't slack off the way that you perhaps
used to be able to somewhat slack off in
some of the white collar professions.
It's just a lot easier. Like the
expectation for output is so high.
people are tweeting and I'm like it
seems like a lot of people are slacking
off these days. I'm like how do you have
time? I have time because I'm like a
journalist and I sit, you know, I create
words professionally.
have time to be tweeting all day.
of progress. No question. There are new
harnesses for AI models that increase
all of our capabilities and so forth.
That's different than we all know that's
true. That's different than like job
wipeout in a significant way. What is it
about to you that you think yes there is
progress but progress on the scale of
this is an imminent thing that we have
to be talking about that could really
reshape white collar labor
co uh because the thing about AI
progress is just that it's really in
many ways exponential where the amount
of time that an AI uh can operate
autonomously without a human really has
been doubling every 112 12 days or so
for the past 6 years. And you know, when
I think about CO, this was a thing that
nobody saw coming. Uh, and then it
happened really fast. And then I think
the political system was very reactive.
And I think that a lot of quietly, a lot
of Democrats wish that they had handled
things a little bit differently. But
what's cool is that unlike co, you know,
we really can see this coming. All of
the warning signs are blinking. And you
know the other point I want to make here
is you know I personally think that
there's a lot of potential for
large-scale job loss particularly white
collar but you know there are a lot of
truck drivers there are a lot of Uber
drivers um you know all kinds of people
could lose their jobs and this could all
happen very quickly. I think the more
important point though is that the
American people see this and are really
quite worried. You know, when you ask
people, uh, how likely do you think it
is that in the next 5 years there might
be large scale job loss because of AI?
70% of the population says that it's
……（中部抽样）……
either very likely or somewhat likely.
once it's already happening it will be
we've been here before right We all well
alternative professions are for white
new economy like what are the new jobs
incredibly rapid adopters of AI tools
manufacturing more doctors and in cases
it's kind of glum to say okay some some
the economy starts shifting more
because there's just a lot more capital
in other respects they are, you know, in
have this comprehensive world model. And
facts that are so obvious that nobody
worth asking a question and you might
kind of weird to be like to say like my
like a you know absent-minded professor.
people. Has the nature of your hiring
polling questions or to write messages
stuff is AI good at finding nonobvious
about that means this is the question I
engineering than before. So I think
well. But Bern you write a newsletter on
kind of narrow technical statement about
measure people's ability as as software
that skill is kind of obsolete right
produced than ever before by a huge
things to write specifically from chat
little bit more. So, this question of
we are now with the technology and where
like cloud code. If you just went back a
they've become smarter. And I don't
growth of these companies, which I think
And you know what I would say just on
much faster than any of those things.
sectors of the economy. And this
political system can handle this.
they're unspoken. So if you look at
there's a lot of fun economic history on
if you have a factory that has some kind
retained earnings. It's like if you're
upgrade this machine to a newer machine,
investor accounts from the 1920s and
stock and it was supposed to be the book
completely differently like it would be
then the business you know my stock
of I think it was like causal and in
before it hits anyone else and it'll hit
that is that the specific technology
It'll ask, okay, well, you know, what do
exposed that you could do? Or, you know,
can ask the chat GPT what your
your son like and if you said you know
like in this loud, noisy, very
did talk about that being kind of
captures the productivity gains here and
us. But history is full of examples of
and it actually makes us more miserable.
when the cost of communication goes
lot of it is so meta like a lot of this
contracts and so we'll need fewer
two years ago and I just thought, my
on how you ask it, but the main
they they ironically, despite all the
people are more pessimistic about AI,
educated and more like working class. Is
well, you know, the jobs are going to
the statement that AI is going to create
public thinks the economy is rigged.
you know working class people remember
lost. And so you know the main point I
future without knowing what the politics
all a fraud, that thinks it's like this
what's been building in the Democratic
technology that is going to evolve like
Even since last year, the share of
Democrats are in a much better position
jobs, that job loss isn't going to
And I think that folks are kind of
like that, but I would imagine for a big
it stands something like 60% of the
whole host of different sectors. You
deployed quite widely." And I think that
very concerned they're going to be
progress and acceleration and so forth.
you how do you see the uh tectonic
have a different set of views. And I
flying on a plane is just a much more
wealthy people had it. And actually,
tasks and I wouldn't feel at all bad if
also, older demographics nominally don't
generated text. They feel much more
outside abstract perspective. So the the
electricity or even the internet where
like are you pro or anti like it just
plagiarism like deniable plagiarism
going to hit very quickly. People get
the most popular politicians in the
tons of winners or losers like you know
benefits and concentrated losers that's
to respond and I whenever you go back as
January it's only the weird online
was more like this is a prudent response
[laughter] and then, you know, Trump, I
his early COVID speeches, we would have
which was really weird to me because the
lot of time watching TV. If what you're
the progrowth abundance faction like
issues that changed in salience I think
though like the situation is still very
ago question, trade is still the most
think the transistor and integrated
devices we have in our homes that can do
controls with no transistors inside of
construction." Could you see a world
specific thing happening in that
of single family homes totally seems to
polling on data centers is it's true
bills by 10%. Then suddenly it becomes
land use and that I think it would be a
voters think that the economy is rigged
very much. Uh while what does uh I think
address it and it's not just should I
you yourself think about adoption of the
in that supply chain has all of their
um in, you know, the year 2032 or
organization side just you know do you
middle management? Probably not because
a regulated job where there is some kind
to do so as long as they can limit
can sue me if it goes wrong because
efficient to sue me for something chatpt
something economically valuable that we
and that you know if you decide that
that that kind of model where you want a
of the things that comes up is we did a
anti-discrimination laws and stuff. So
curious like from a fi just thinking
humans is bad at knowing why it actually
with some very solid sounding
can actually read the reasoning traces.
process. So you might have them, you
they went to this question and then they
through that and reproduce it. Now, if
lot of clever people just figure things
defy gravity
think it could be very helpful to you
the worst case outcome is probably going
politics?
to make content that's persuasive, that
something like 5% of the public is
incentives are really to focus on the 5%
know, just to give an example, someone I
person who was responsible for a
point is really the status quo is really
game of like how do you actually get
regular things that affect people's
content. It could be good but also uh
seem disconnected from anything that
annoying and yet you wouldn't it's
if you ask people what issue do you care
to like number five and like climate
know, what the public cares about. Um
read on the policies you would expect to
Me personally, I'm not usually the
……（接近结尾）……
which there's a huge chunk of AI
spending and AI's impact that probably
does mean that it's potentially more
likely that someone could make a career
out of something like agitating against
spam tax. And we did actually see you
know click to cancel is kind of moving
along. So you know those little quality
of life things like click to cancel is
the kind of thing a mayor would be
really proud of but it has to be done at
more of a federal level. But maybe if
it's possible to actually target
whatever population niche like really
wants to bring back pay toilets because
they think that banning paid toilets
creates all kinds of perverse economic
outcomes which it does. You can find
those people, you can mobilize them and
you can get them to, you know, if there
is like some very close race somewhere
in the House race for example and one of
the politicians happens to support this
particular pet issue, they could be like
the crypto people and just money bomb
the person who happens to also support
the thing that they like. So we could
actually have that's another way we
could potentially see AI democratizing
democracy further is that you can
actually coordinate interest groups for
people who are just less politics but
still actually care about problems that
should be solved through the political
process.
you know because uh you know you said
that Bren said that this is ominous and
you know I I want to push back on that a
little bit. There's an Ed Glazer quote
that I really like which is you know
everyone wants macroeconomics to have
micro foundations but micro foundations
itself should be microfounded that we
are not going to experience any of the
potential productivity gains or or only
experience a fraction of the
productivity gains unless we can give
voters some sense of security. that
public is really crying out that they
want economic security and that they
want to be able to look out at the next
5 years without fear. And if you can
provide a new social contract, if you
can actually provide economic security
at a high level, then you can actually
have all of these like sector specific
shifts to have higher productivity. But
if politicians don't advance a vision
like that, then we're just going to
collapse into a Byzantine series of
sector specific, you know, regulations
and guilds, which I think you don't want
either. And so I think, you know, the
libertarians should really choose, you
know, uh what world they want. you know,
either we can have a largecale solution
that protects people's incomes and
prevents them from being losers, or we
can just kind of have this giant
negative some fight playing out in every
single sector simultaneously. And I'll
also say, you know, we're not really in
the ideal political circumstances, you
know, for that latter thing to to
happen. And so, I think it really could
get quite ugly.
was a fascinating chat. We really are
going to have to do another hour on what
deep fakes are doing. But, uh, thank you
all for joining and, uh, have a great
rest of your day.
That was our conversation with David
Shore and Burn Hobart recorded live at
South by Southwest in Austin. I'm Tracy
Aloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Aloway.
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Burn Hobart. He's at Burn Hobart and
David Shore at David Shore. Follow our
producers Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen
Arman Dash Bennett at Dashbot and
Kalebrooks at Kalebrooks. And for more
OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlots.
We have a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
if you like it when we record these live
episodes, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite podcast
platform. [music] And remember, if you
are a Bloomberg subscriber, you can
listen to all of our episodes [music]
absolutely adree. All you need to do is
find the Bloomberg channel on Apple
Podcast and follow the instructions
there. Thanks for listening.
Yeah.