TITLE: Did Israel Push Trump Into War?
CHANNEL: The Daily
DURATION_S: 2257  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-05T15:54:00+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t3MjxHLAwQQ
SHA256: e75459eb7398fd4a3c747d292dc3f924e992023198d849c3930af1ac3c82dfa9

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2026] Somewhere between April to June 2026.
  [2025] So, in January 2025, Trump comes in, and
  [2020] 2020 congratulated Joe Biden on winning
  [1979] Embassy in 1979, the killing of hundreds
  [1983] of Marines in 1983 in Beirut, and it's

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
From the New York Times, I'm Natalie
Kitroeff. This is The Daily. Mr.
President, did Israel force your hand to
launch these strikes against Iran? Did
Netanyahu pull the United States into
this war?
Six days into the war, the role that
Israel [music] has played in driving
President Trump to attack Iran has
become a major point of political
tension.
going, I think they were going to attack
first.
I didn't want that to happen. So, if
anything, I might have forced Israel's
hand.
The key questions have been to what
extent is a foreign [music] country
shaping the actions of the US commander
in chief? We knew that there was going
to be an Israeli action. We knew that
that would precipitate an attack against
American forces, and we knew that if we
didn't preemptively go after them before
they launched those attacks, [music] we
would suffer higher casualties. And how
did Trump get on board with something no
American president had ever agreed to?
Waging a joint war [music] with Israel
against Iran. Have we now delegated the
most solemn
society, the decision to go to war, to
another country?
Today, my colleagues Mark Mazzetti and
Ronen Bergman on what we know about the
extraordinarily close cooperation
between the US and Israel,
endgame in Iran.
Mark, Ronen, we wanted to bring you both
onto the show because you've both been
covering this conflict in Iran. Ronen,
you from Israel, and you, Mark, on the
DC side. You are writing a book
together. You are often reporting
partners, and it is so wonderful to have
you both here today. Thanks for having
us. Thanks, Natalie.
Pleasure.
the show a few days ago that part of the
lead-up to the war in Iran involved
Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu lobbying hard for it with
President Trump. And over the last few
days, the extent to which Netanyahu may
have been a driving force behind this
conflict has become a much more central
question here. And we want to go deep on
that today to try to answer the
unanswered questions about how much
Israel is actually determining the shape
of these attacks, which have now
continued into a fifth day, and the
degree to which this war is about what
the US wants versus what Israel wants.
How should we think about that?
So, publicly over the last few months,
we've seen President Trump take this
sort of circuitous path to war. Does he
really want to strike? Does he want a
deal? Does he want peace? Who knows? So,
it's been very unclear which direction
this was going. But I think the real
story is that behind the scenes,
this was every day pushing closer to
war.
And also behind the scenes, the constant
was the pressure of Prime Minister
Netanyahu to get Trump there. And that
issue blew up this week after Secretary
of State Marco Rubio told reporters
that, in essence, the war began because
Israel was going to begin it, and that
the United States needed to protect
itself from possible Iranian attack. So,
in other words, Israel was driving this,
and the US was responding as if there
was no choice but to join the war that
Israel started. Right. These comments by
Rubio were seized upon. They were
immediately controversial.
Right, because it already touches a
point that many, [clears throat]
particularly in President Trump's party,
have criticized. This idea that
Israel and Netanyahu are getting the
United States into wars in the Middle
East, ultimately driving American
foreign policy.
So, Ronen and I've been covering this
issue for a long time, and we've written
over the years about how Netanyahu has
been pushing American presidents towards
war with Iran for many years. We're
talking about George W. Bush. We're
talking about Obama. We're talking about
Joe Biden. We're talking about Donald
Trump.
year and a half, where we now have two
American wars in Iran,
because
Netanyahu began to see the costs of
going to war with Iran as lower,
and therefore, that helped sell the
United States getting involved.
dynamic as you've described it, where
should we start? Where does that story
begin?
Well, I think you could begin at the
beginning of the Trump administration.
So, in January 2025, Trump comes in, and
Netanyahu once again begins this
pressure campaign about a war in Iran.
And remember, these two men have a
history of mistrust. Remember, Bibi in
2020 congratulated Joe Biden on winning
the election that Donald Trump thought
was stolen. So, Trump was angry about
that. So, there is a history of mistrust
here. So, when Trump comes in in
Okay, and tell me about that planning
that was already underway, Ronen. What
do we know about it?
So, this was an rolling plan
towards an attack
that called for, in the first time in
history, a joint US-Israeli
strike on Iran Hmm. that would involve
Israeli intelligence and the almighty
power of America together.
Something that Netanyahu always, always,
this was his his dream. He he thrived
for that, and everybody told him this
will never happen.
And then someone said to President
Trump, this is April 2025, "Listen, we
are
being dragged into war that we don't
want, and we want an agreement."
You're saying that when Trump came to
office, there were already these plans
afoot that involved a joint US-Israel
attack that Trump then has to contend
with. And in April of last year, he said
no. Yes, at the beginning, he doesn't
want that, and he says to Netanyahu,
"Stop. Don't."
No, Trump said no, just like every other
American president this century had said
no to Netanyahu.
put a stop to it.
But obviously then, a few months later,
we do see these strikes on Iran's
nuclear sites. So, Trump at some point
changed his mind. What happened? How did
Bibi succeed where he'd failed with
previous presidents? So, after Trump
says no in April, the planning continues
in Israel to do strikes in Iran without
the United States joining in, or maybe
just in a defensive role.
And this proceeds all the way to June,
when Netanyahu launches the war, and a
day after the conflict begins, Trump is
watching how it's playing. He's watching
Fox News. He's watching the sense of is
this successful? Meaning, is it being
received well? Is it being received
well? Does it seem to be going well?
And as we reported last year, decides
the United States is going to join. That
Netanyahu had begun something that
Netanyahu himself said only the United
States can finish. Because the United
States has military capabilities,
specifically, these bunker buster bombs
that can hit deeply buried sites. And
so, if this thing is going to actually
be brought to its conclusion,
the United States has to get involved.
And that's ultimately what convinces
Trump to join the strikes last June,
hit the three nuclear facilities, and
then declare them, in Trump's words,
completely and totally obliterated.
Right. And both he and Bibi come out and
say that they have successfully
dismantled the sites, and they have set
Iran's nuclear program back a
generation. So, how did we then get from
Trump okaying that kind of limited
strike that was declared so successful
to now this much more extreme campaign
that is aimed at dismantling an entire
regime? Even before the planes, the
bombers turned back to the US, and he
already has the the BDA, the the battle
damage assessment, and Bibi saying we
removed the threat from the nuclear
project and the missile project for
generations.
But he didn't have that, and it was not
true. High-ranking military officials
told us in real time the tactical
achievements of both militaries
were as expected, but nobody expected
that this limited campaign would remove
the threat. Because if it removed the
threat, what are we doing now? Like, we
remove a threat, and then it comes back
after 8 months? But just to be clear,
……（中部抽样）……
what you're saying is they did not
a generation, and that the threat was
knew that. Yeah, and Israeli BDA said
parts of the nuclear plan
other parts in months.
versus the targets, but the statements
obliterated, and it was not.
issue is largely settled.
sites obliterated, moves on.
as Ronan says, in Israel, there's a view
round. The sites aren't obliterated,
missiles. So, this doesn't go away for
the June strike, you see the pressure
Israeli officials are discussing with
need for another conflict in Iran. And
late December, Hmm. when Netanyahu comes
case
And what is the case that Netanyahu
So, the case that he's making to the
about the case that he's making to the
additional motives behind of what he's
military an order to get ready to
with the US or without the US.
That's back in November, October,
saw the the timeline of 2026.
lagging much behind in all the polls.
All of that together, he is getting the
preparation, he comes to Mar-a-Lago. And
convincing the Israeli military,
as he goes to meet with Trump. So, with
gets to Mar-a-Lago? What does he say to
China is resupplying Iran with the
of ballistic missiles.
rearming, they are regrouping. We need
than happy if it's a joint US-Israeli
I am asking the president's blessing
and a and a helping the defense of
April and June 2026." So, Netanyahu's
Israel posed by Iran. First of all, is
not at this point talking about any
US at this time, right? That's not part
That's correct. Iran does not have any
States.
the missile production has continued
direct threat to Israel. Now, I think
that needs to be sort of unpacked a
missiles at Israel after Israel began
is, is it imminent because Iran is about
Bibi was making that case at all, but
capabilities of Iran pose a direct
that I think that Iran didn't pose a
but Bibi keeps reminding Trump that it
Trump.
ordered personally by the supreme
Israeli intelligence who told the FBI
But that left a very personal point from
you're saying Bibi is reminding Trump of
remember? Yeah, and they did. It was
And another case that Netanyahu is
right now, and the time is to strike.
forces, like specifically Hezbollah, has
Their missile launchers and their
And remember also, this is the beginning
streets of Tehran that the government
weakness for Iran that it looks like
seize. There's an interesting
first argument Bibi's making is Iran
strong. The second argument is Iran is
they're down. I mean, both of those
Yeah, I think that's fair to say. I
primarily because of these missiles that
that if we wait 3-4 months, it'll be
is the moment to do it, and the regime
events of the last year and a half. Got
argument? So, he doesn't close the door
And so, Netanyahu leaves Florida
for some time in the future. And then,
authorizes the military operation in
to capture Nicolas Maduro and his wife
States. And the significance of this
that can be done quickly, cleanly, with
emboldened by the Venezuela operation,
military force can be used elsewhere
including Iran. I wonder, Ronan, if
moment, at the extraction of Maduro, as
far and be very aggressive now on the
an opportunity.
an assessment, that if Prime Minister
event,
Trump
just with the flipping of his fingers,
maneuvers. Right. So, he will be more
just Netanyahu, I'm talking about
"Listen, you can succeed when when all
especially Obama.
And Netanyahu sees himself as the person
"You can do something that all the
failed. You are the man. You will have
go for this one strike, one big attack
regime once and for all, and do what
but you you, Mr. President, you will
And then, soon after the Maduro capture,
which Trump reacts to by promising to
American strikes. We all heard that. So,
Well, now, there's a whole 'nother
suggest that the Iran regime is weak,
idea of the United States can intervene
Iranian government to help the
pivot for justification goes to helping
you said, that, you know, the United
intervene on the behalf of the
happens on January 14th,
says,
Israelis, are not ready for a strike.
original plan was April to June 2026,
preparations that were being made were
you've got to wait."
We know that they wait until February to
Netanyahu's warning. And all of this,
that Israel and the US are very clearly
on all of this. It's not just Trump
blessing or not. In this case, Netanyahu
kind of path both sides are going to
Yes, and from, you know, this period in
happening at a lower level with the
a joint operation, a joint strike
So,
Trump's mind for US military action,
been planted for a larger US-Israeli
And so, looking forward to today, we see
than he ever wanted back in December.
Okay, so by this point I now understand
made his case to Trump, how he was
bargained for. What's less clear to me
time around, why he went this far, what
We've spent a lot of time over the last
and to sort of get to the matter of what
And the answer is that there were a lot
him to his decision and the
centered around the question, what's in
We'll be right back.
was considering a potential attack on
allies around the world about just how
complicated deliberations. What do we
about where all this is headed?
was presented by his military advisers,
Staff Dan Kaine, a set of not only
striking Iran, but also what the
And from our understanding, General
especially if there is a large-scale
repercussions might be.
economic disruptions, potential
East. Of course, if you were to
large-scale casualties in Israel. So,
President Trump as he was making his
They run the war games. On the other
potentially negative consequences, no
telling him this is a bad idea. He's
advisers. We report that J.D. Vance, the
of American military interventions,
know if this is a good idea, but if
So, you have this idea being reinforced
action should take place. Remember,
Jared Kushner and Steve Witkoff are
nuclear program and they're basically
don't think there's a deal here because
Israel, the United States and Iran
report that one of the few people who
Tucker Carlson, who meets with the
making the case that this is an enormous
history of criticizing the role that
Right. And at the same time, it sounds
potential reaction within his own base
I think that, you know, Trump has said
you know, the MAGA movement is me.
the people of this movement will
……（接近结尾）……
lockstep since the war began.
And for Netanyahu, that might be the
most significant thing.
From the point of view of Netanyahu
I think so far, so good.
The region, the whole world
see the close cooperation between the
two militaries of US and Israel and how
close these countries are together.
Right. But, that's also bear the seeds
for a risk to Israel because
with respect to the cooperation it
sometimes meet with realities of the
area. And the reality of the area is
that nothing is really solved with the
help of the US. Like, Hamas is still in
control of Gaza.
Still
aspiring to execute another October 7th.
Hezbollah is still
the most powerful military force in
Lebanon. They just launched missiles at
Tel Aviv yesterday.
And Iran, the regime is still in place
and they still have the 450
kg of enriched uranium to almost
military grade. They still have the
centrifuges. They still have the
missiles.
So even with the support of the US
nothing is solved and we are still
living in a very risky region that every
minute sits on a barrel
of explosive that can re-explode
every minute.
Right. You're saying that even in this
new world where you have the US and
Israel going after Iran, striking Iran,
going to war with Iran together
that lockstep cooperation hasn't yet, at
least, yielded the kind of solutions
that actually would make things better
for Israelis, better for the region.
And better for the Iranian public.
It's just the hammering of Iranian
nuclear sites and the missile sites and
the air defenses and the killing of
people and some of them were very, very
bad people that had the citizens of Iran
blood on their hand and and American
blood on their hands exploding the
American Embassy in the '80s.
But what's next?
Is it solved? Like, are we looking at
the beginning of a new horizon to the
Middle East? I'm not sure at all because
the regime is still there and the
problems are still there and they are
not yet solved. And this cannot be
that by the end of this week or maybe a
little later, the President [music]
of the United States will declare
victory.
He would say, "We removed the threat.
It's obliterated." Whatever phrase he
uses.
But, is it?
I don't see [music]
anything solved. I see only
more potential difficulties and
challenges here.
Well, Mark, Ronan,
Thank you. Thanks, Natalie.
We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need to know today.
On Wednesday, the US-Israeli bombardment
of Iran became a wider international
crisis.
NATO was drawn into the conflict when
its air defenses [music] shot down an
Iranian ballistic missile headed toward
Turkey, a NATO member.
A US submarine destroyed an Iranian
warship off the coast of Sri Lanka,
killing dozens who were on board. Their
navy not a factor. Pick your adjective,
it is no more. During a news conference,
US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said
that the [music] attack demonstrated the
reach and resolve of the US military as
it seeks to decimate Iran's military. An
American submarine
was safe in international waters.
Instead, it was sunk by a torpedo.
Quiet death.
The first sinking of an enemy ship by a
torpedo since World War II.
Finally, [music] Iran's leaders appeared
close to naming a new supreme leader,
likely the son of the late Ayatollah
Khamenei, [music]
who was killed last weekend. But,
Israel's defense minister said that if
the next supreme leader followed [music]
the same ideology as Khamenei he would
become, quote, a target [music]
for elimination.
Today's episode was produced by Ricky
Nevaetsky, [music]
Caitlin O'Keefe, and Stella Tan. It was
edited by Devon Taylor and Paige Cowitt
Contains music by Dan Powell and Rowan
Nimaesto. Our theme music is by
Wonderly. This episode was engineered by
Alyssa [music] Moxley.
Kitroeff.
See you tomorrow.