TITLE: Inside the Government’s Crackdown on TV
CHANNEL: The Daily
DURATION_S: 2423  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-18T14:48:11+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OXvJkknt1do
SHA256: e7f5f60d166d095b0aadb680916c518b221af8a23ce34cbc2276cfd8ecede1c5

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1920] 1920s.
  [1950] And by the 1950s, the way this gets
  [2006] re-election in 2006.
  [2020] back from 2020. So, they're all
  [1120] operates on a frequency of 1120
  [2000] &gt;&gt; Finally though, in the mid-2000s, the
  [2003] In 2003,
  [30000] Um I would say 30,000, more or less.
  [2024] him in the fall of 2024, when he watches

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
From the New York Times, I'm Rachel
Abrams and this is The Daily.
When Stephen Colbert announced that the
government's increasingly aggressive
stance toward late night meant that he
could not air a planned interview with a
Democratic Senate candidate,
it sent chills throughout the media.
And then, this past weekend, the chair
of the Federal Communications Commission
threatened to punish news outlets over
coverage of the war in Iran.
Today, my colleague Jim Rutenberg
explains how the White House is trying
to shape media coverage of its agenda
and just how far it's willing to go in
its crackdown on network television.
It's Wednesday, March 18th.
Jim Rutenberg, welcome back to the show.
the show now when we have questions
about the media and free speech and
government intervention. And just this
last weekend, in fact, Brendan Carr, the
chairman of the FCC, threatened media
companies by basically implying in a
tweet that he would revoke station
licenses that ran with coverage of the
Iran war that he called, quote, "hoaxes
and distortions."
And between that and the dust-ups he's
had with late night, most recently with
Stephen Colbert, we wanted to have you
on yet again here today
to explain to us what we are seeing play
out on our television screens.
Chairman Carr's tweet was part of a
pattern he's been making threats like
this since he started as the chairman at
the start of Trump's term to
warn stations away from certain content
the administration doesn't like. And
this one was extra alarming to people
because
it was a governmental threat against
station licenses at a time of war when
information is at a premium where the
public really needs to understand what's
going on. But, one thing I want to say
here is this veiled threat he was
making, it's really legally dubious. The
FCC can't go willy-nilly grabbing
licenses because it disagrees with the
content. In fact, it's totally
prohibited under the law. It does have
control over stations licenses, but what
he's talking about to take away licenses
from television stations, it's a very
onerous legal process. So, we'll see how
that plays out. But, we do have other
test cases that are part of the same
campaign where the FCC is really
saber-rattling in a way that we haven't
seen in decades. And we have seen how
far it can go and how serious the
effects can be. And most notably, where
we've seen the rubber really meet the
road has been of all places with
late-night television. More
specifically, the Stephen Colbert show
of CBS.
Colbert.
FCC notifies broadcasters that we are
going to apply a rule called the equal
time rule to late-night television. And
it says that when candidates for office
are on non-news programming, there has
to be an equal amount of time to all
candidates running for a certain office.
They need equal time on that station.
You're all on notice, we're going to
apply it. So, a few weeks later, when
Stephen Colbert books Talarico on his
show, Talarico is now in a primary
campaign against Jasmine Crockett, CBS's
lawyers notify Stephen Colbert and his
producers, "Hey, you could have a
problem here with the FCC cuz you have
an equal time issue potentially." And
Stephen Colbert and the network disagree
to the extent to which CBS told him not
to air an interview with Talarico or
whether they were just warning him, but
guests tonight? That's Texas State
Representative James Talarico.
says that he's been told he can't have
Talarico on. Now, he can't have him on
YouTube, which doesn't fall under the
FCC.
want us to talk about this,
let's talk about this.
this campaign from this old agency that
people sitting at home hadn't heard of
or hadn't heard about in years.
called the equal time rule, okay? It's
an old FCC rule that applies only to
radio and broadcast television.
Trump's administration wants to silence
anyone who says anything bad about Trump
on TV, cuz all Trump does is watch TV.
example with Colbert, the FCC didn't
tell CBS it couldn't have Talarico on
the show. What we saw was more of a
preemptive move by CBS to avoid
incurring the wrath of the FCC.
example of Brendan Carr, the FCC,
saying, "Hey, Stephen Colbert can't have
that person on."
But what is absolutely true here is that
there's no discussion inside of CBS.
If the FCC does not issue this new
guidance on late night television in
January, which is putting the whole late
night world, the whole network world, on
notice that we're really going to be
watching you here. And in so many years
of covering this, Rachel, it was the
first time that I had seen
a moment where a content decision was
made at a major network involving
politics
in direct reaction to a newly declared
policy on the federal government level.
though Jim is just why late night?
Because we've been hearing for years,
right? That late night's numbers are
declining. So, I don't really understand
why the administration would choose to
focus on this segment of television in
particular.
some of the people involved on the
conservative side in this effort. And
what they will say is that broadcast
television is free and every American
can get it without needing a cable
subscription, without needing an
internet subscription. So, it has a
reach that nothing else has to this day.
And where ratings might not be what they
once were, it also lives on online.
Stephen Colbert's bits,
Jimmy Kimmel's bits, they bounce around
online in a way other comedy bits don't.
And that is in part because of this
broadcast platform they have, that it's
still worth something, it's still
valuable. But I think that there's a big
reason that the administration's going
after late night in this moment and it's
not just about reach.
It's about sort of the evolution of late
night television over the years.
Throughout the course of TV history,
late night has carved out this really
unique role in the landscape. One that
has over the years
let it sort of coast along beyond the
reach of the regulators quite a bit. And
so, the FCC said, "Look, maybe this
hasn't been applied in a really long
time, but we are going to hold you to
this equal time standard and you better
come correct."
privileged position and and end up with
that carve out that you mentioned?
starts really with the rule we are
talking about, the equal time rule. Let
me bring you, if you will, back to the
1920s.
operates on a frequency of 1120
kilocycles.
new in the 1920s,
the government and the radio industry
were grappling with this new thing,
radio.
It's doing something that's never been
done in human history. It is reaching
millions of people at once
electronically with sound, very
evocative.
time at the beginning of the radio days
because anyone could get a transmitter
and throw up a signal on any frequency.
And so radio was a complete mess.
Competing signals, static. The industry
needed government to come and sort it
out. So government basically said,
"We're taking control of this.
exclusive use of certain station
frequencies, but in return,
because of this power you are going to
have, we are going to expect you to do
certain things to make sure it's used
responsibly. This could really affect
politics because whoever owns the
station will get to dictate everything,
what people think.
that said you couldn't use a radio
station to give one-sided versions of
the most controversial issues in town.
You can't give one candidate the
advantage. And so the equal time rule
comes about to say if you give one
candidate advertising time at a certain
rate for a certain amount of time, then
you have to give the other. And if you
have one on,
you have to have the other on. This This
is now we're talking about candidates.
They have to be candidates.
the protocol here is that the network
has to figure out some way to give the
other person some program, some
advertisement that gets like what, the
same reach or
can't like give them time at 4:00 in the
morning, right? It's got to have similar
ratings. It's got to be free and it's
got to be the same amount of time. So
over the years, this transfers over to
……（中部抽样）……
television, but society is continually
And by the 1950s, the way this gets
For instance, around debates,
have a shot in heck, I'll say.
what do you do when you have 17
convincingly, we need an exemption here.
time. It's just completely unworkable.
debate.
debate. So news gets exempted,
have all these exemptions getting added.
a news broadcast because a news
people operate in good faith, they do
to this idea, bonafide news. That's
their ability, that will be
the equal time rule. But the rule still
have a candidate come on a game show or
news show, the equal time does not
worlds are
come together a lot more.
more entertainers entering the world of
running. He's now a politician and he
got.
over TV. So, candidates who are running
airtime to make up for that." And those
giving away 2 hours of time.
at entertainment. They're increasingly
game. He goes on Arsenio Hall's show,
himself relatable. He goes and he plays
being on the other side of the posse.
mixing together now. And this pitches
one quite knows what to do with.
In 2003,
very friendly platform with Jay Leno and
the Jay Leno Tonight Show to announce
he did it on Leno.
Leno and Schwarzenegger were like having
Schwarzenegger. I still get a kick out
were at the Playboy Club together in
again and again.
bad.
running again. He's now governor for
saying, "Hey, this isn't fair."
They're friends.
have to adjudicate here. Because NBC is
and says, "You know what? This is a
So, we are going to say that the Tonight
late night took that to mean if the FCC
extreme case and that's fine. So, off we
news, the rest of late night interpreted
can have whoever we want on for however
enforce it. So, after this Leno ruling
another shift in late night that we
night hosts start becoming even more
MESS-O-POTAMIA.
Um I would say 30,000, more or less.
jelly beans are in a jar.
success, so he's influencing the
national strategy for victory in Iraq.
thinks that it will
to the crisis.
Trump winning the presidency.
want to get Trump something, you can't
Trump especially, but Republican
their guests are Democrats.
Trump years.
shocking. Years later now, late night
side of the spectrum.
even Trump's control in the first term,
night
described about Leno from the FCC,
even though late night was becoming more
the government of that old rule starts
little-known lawyer from Wisconsin named
Like, we're going to have an actual
journey he goes on
night TV right now.
for years on, you know, real classic
a nonprofit law firm called the Center
And never in his career, from what I
television, broadcast rules, the FCC.
Donald J. Trump and Kamala Harris.
eating the cats and they're eating the
Kamala Harris. Trump is furious. After
want to remind people is in Trump's
pull their license.
what does that mean? How do you pull a
we get into it.
are based on this idea in the law, the
they're public airwaves that, you know,
the Trump party. It's like, how's that
interest rules." And so, to him, it's
one-sided love fest.
to certain stations if you think they're
station in Philadelphia. It happens to
where he does it. And he goes on when
Minutes that Trump is alleging was
the FCC on that. He finds a term called
these cases is that these networks are
are presenting is not bonafide news.
doing with these complaints is he's
programming not biased, right? But, the
know what? If you're a news program, we
that does not apply in today's world.
basically saying
actually running a foul of the
rules, how they came about, for years
always said these rules are an
want the government messing in content.
represents this new strain
their own conclusions about the
doesn't. But, what he is saying is that
solve all problems. And in this case,
allowed this to happen? I'm going to
FCC Chair, Jessica Rosenworcel, asked
they found that they carried no weight.
measure, they also threw out a complaint
stolen election coverage on Fox News
Daniel Sir to get all of his complaints
chair, was publicly kind of validating
Carr and what does he believe?
communications law. But, very much
these public interest rules and for you
that partly a Daniel Sir showing up
Sir really lights the way for him.
toward him.
all of those complaints, not the Fox
Daniel Sir take this from the news
the ear of the FCC chair. He's cooking
an even bigger opportunity than
cultural power of celebrity
Democrats?
but that's different from seeing your
and your favorite comedians
some study showing that late night is
he actually files a complaint against
Kimmel is tilting his show toward one
an assassin shoots and kills Charlie
that the shooter could be a MAGA fan.
of them and doing everything they can.
not sure which, maybe both.
is not anything at all like that.
taken place by Jimmy Kimmel
to lie to the American people.
frankly on Kimmel or you know, there's
way or the hard way.
trouble and ABC does suspend Kimmel's
that wow, the FCC's now really coming
Sir and Carr, late night is on the
when the FCC under Carr
instance was a bit more ad hoc, right?
announcement that says, here's the new
to the late night talk shows more
in 2006. We do not see it as applying to
sheriff in town and it's over.
the one who essentially put the equal
this moment, this campaign that we are
interview getting taken off the air.
that in fact the FCC is investigating
it's if anything The View is a very
with pretty reliable voters who watch it
are the mechanics of that, but can he
arguing is that he's not undoing
something very important that we have to
find a lawyer who has said, "Yes, the
is talking about." It's just nobody
powerful. It's not in any major media
federal government's willing to dangle
to be in court for months or longer with
perspective as well. That television
programming. That goes back to the
would feel like late-night television
to the initial positive spirit with
he said it elsewhere time and time
here, even liberal policy experts who
that late-night has strayed too far. But
you be applying this then to talk radio?
rule if they have guests on within
one of the biggest talk shows in radio,
on around an election?
on a weekly basis millions and millions
every day across all the conservative
there's even an argument that's getting
the letter of the law, that when it
……（接近结尾）……
dynamic.
all this liberal stuff off the air,
right? It's saying that
that red state consumers
deserve content they want, too, from
their broadcaster, right? And And my
hope is that as we,
you know, see shifts in the media
landscape, we get more of that, right?
And And And
that the FCC is not just going to
oversee some kind of great balancing act
here, but that it actually might use its
power to promote a certain kind of
programming for a certain kind of
audience with a certain kind of taste,
which sounds like an activist FCC,
right? And I can imagine that some
people might hear that and think,
"Well, what happens if the other side of
the aisle is in power?"
conservatives that still view
the FCC and its power here as as
anathema to to their ideology. So,
Senator Ted Cruz has warned that if this
happens now under us, the Democrats are
going to do it to our people. Ben
Shapiro has said that. Joe Rogan has
made us issue a similar warning that if
this happens here, the other side's
going to do it.
the right that this is opening up a
Pandora's Box that's best left closed.
persuaded by that argument, right?
Because as we said at the top of this
episode, Brendan Carr over the weekend
is basically doubling down on this
strategy of going after coverage that he
does not like and trying to influence
coverage specifically of the war.
What can we say about the various ways
this could play out going forward?
there was more Republican blowback this
weekend with Carr's Iran-related
message. Notably, the Republican senator
from Wisconsin, Ron Johnson. There was
also a lot of back and forth on social
media between policy experts and Carr
himself and journalists
as to what he could really do here. But,
that said, this is an amazing amount of
pressure on the networks to tow the line
during war with real threats of
governmental punishment.
And let's remember, aside from Iran, we
also have the congressional midterms
coming up this fall.
What happens if some of those elections
are disputed over these flimsy
allegations of fraud we saw in 2020?
How's that going to be handled? And is
the FCC going to weigh in there?
And then, let's bring it back to the
late-night shows. The administration has
made it clear that they see those as
part of the political arena. Are these
late-night shows going to stop booking
politicians altogether?
The short of it is, you know, we'll wait
and we'll see. But, in our lifetimes, we
have never seen the federal government
get involved this much in content
decisions and policing content decisions
on broadcast television.
Israel said it had dealt double blows to
the upper echelons of Iran's leadership
on Tuesday,
killing Ali Larajani, the head of the
country's Supreme National Security
Council, and Brigadier General
Gholamreza Soleimani, the head of a
powerful militia aligned with the
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
The killings were announced hours before
President Trump lashed out again against
NATO allies who have rebuffed his
attempts to draw them into the war in
Iran.
Speaking in the Oval Office, he said the
United States did not, quote, need or
desire any help to open the Strait of
Hormuz, and added that he was, quote,
disappointed in NATO.
And one of the United States' top
counterterrorism officials resigned on
Tuesday, citing his opposition to the
war in Iran and what he said was
Israel's influence over the Trump
administration's policies. The official,
Joe Kent, is the first senior member of
the administration to quit over the war.
Quote, "I cannot in good conscience
support the ongoing war in Iran," Mr.
Kent wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump.
Quote, "Iran posed no imminent threat to
our nation, and it is clear that we
started this war due to pressure from
Israel and its powerful American lobby."
Today's episode was produced by Alex
Stern, Ricky N'vetzky, Mary Wilson, and
Diana Wynn.
It was edited by Rob Zipko with help
from Michael Benoist.
Fact-checked by Susan Lee, and contains
music by Pat McCusker, Marion Lozano,
Dan Powell, Rowena Umisto, and Alicia
Ba'it Tube.
Our theme music is by Wonderly.
This episode was engineered by Chris
Wood.
That's it for The Daily. I'm Rachel
Abrams. See you tomorrow.