TITLE: War in Iran is Chewing Through American Missile Stockpiles | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots
DURATION_S: 2704  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-16T08:10:15+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pYz8vkMXAHM
SHA256: 9203fbc4e945956fbf18cbf0bb5b721183f72b4995933e8628cbba5621751bc8

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1000] cruise missiles. When you're over 1,000
  [20000] these numbers that you see like $20,000
  [1200] 1,200 km range Tomahawk missile. You
  [2026] recording this March 12th, 2026.
  [25000] these drones that cost, I think, $25,000
  [1960] 1960s, uh there's been a high
  [2027] neighbors by 2027." What I worry about
  [5000] know, I think it's up to 5,000 targets
  [3000] Quadrupled that number from like 3,000
  [13000] something to 13,000 something.
  [2000] year to 2,000 a year in production. And
  [28.8] appropriation is 28.8 billion with a B
  [1.0] uh the Trump administration 1.0 or 2.0
  [2.0] uh the Trump administration 1.0 or 2.0
  [80000] 50 and 80,000.
  [30000] $30,000. So, that's good. You need
  [1980] 1980s between the between Iran and Iraq

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
In this conflict, uh there has been an
enormous, and I would say a scary, uh
amount of missiles expended on the part
of the United States. Hundreds and
hundreds on the part of Iran lashing out
at basically all of their neighbors. And
what was once an American idiosyncrasy,
the pursuit of this missile defense
capability, is now very much a global
phenomenon. The demand signals, the
supply and demand signal of long-range
standoff
and the means to contend with it is very
much a global phenomenon.
the sort of volume of activity the US
has or how much we fired already. What
did you mean by that?
of these things. And I want to quote
General Keane, uh the chairman
of the Joint Chiefs, who said who's
asked, "Do we have enough?" And he said,
"We have enough for this conflict."
That is not the same as saying that we
have enough for the other tasks that we
have around the world. Most
significantly,
uh deterring a conflict with China. And
what they're doing right now is
presiding over an extraordinary
vaporization of our inventory in a very
short uh window of time.
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. [music]
roughly maybe a little bit less than 2
weeks into the war in Iran. We are
recording this March 12th, 2026.
And there are of course extraordinary
number of questions about the timing and
the duration of the war. We know already
that the economic impact has been quite
significant, particularly if you just
look at commodity markets. But one of
the questions that sort of may help
determine timing or outcome, I guess,
you know, when we talked about this in
um
the
after the war in Ukraine started, wars
are about supply chains
are about size and scale of the arsenals
and how fast they can be replenished.
logistics.
reason I know that is cuz I just
literally downloaded the book. So, I'll
know more about that in a second. But,
you're absolutely right. I do not like
talking about war or conflict or
military stuff in general, but I do
enjoy talking about supply chains. And
there's one crucial supply chain that we
haven't really discussed in detail ever
before, but it keeps coming up more and
more in this conflict.
know, you see these numbers and I don't
know how real they are, but they're
extraordinary, you know, that it's like
Iran can launch an attack against a
military base in a nearby country, etc.
There's all this talk about the
extraordinary efficacy of cheap drones
and so forth. And then you hear about
the extraordinary cost of missile
defense.
international relations hat.
idea of asymmetric warfare, right? And
the classic examples that would come up
would be guerrilla warfare where, you
know, you have a a less well-equipped
army that is engaging in exhausting
skirmishes against like a
better-equipped larger army.
own weaknesses against the strengths of
another force. Nowadays, we don't really
have that kind of ground conflict,
right? Knock on wood. Um but, you're
seeing it
of missiles, which is really where all
this conflict is playing out is in the
missile space. So, you hear these
stories about like Iran is launching
these drones that cost, I think, $25,000
a pop
Strait of Hormuz, which are also very
cheap relative to some other tactics.
And meanwhile, you hear things like,
well, the UAE's missile defense system
costs like millions of dollars per pop,
literally per pop, against a drone. And
meanwhile, the US is firing, you know,
interceptor missiles or whatever that
cost, again, millions and millions of
dollars.
the math, the sort of missile math seems
very lopsided. And then, of course, the
question is just the pure numbers. And
how many do you have and what is the
capacity to ramp up production, etc. All
huge questions that are
from?
There's a mommy missile and a daddy
missile.
joke just then, but I decided not to,
but, you know.
and we don't have the answers, but we're
going to learn a lot. We have the
perfect guest, someone who knows about
this intimately, someone who focuses on
this entirely. We're going to be
speaking with Tom Karako, senior fellow
and director of the Missile Defense
Project at CSIS, and he's going to walk
us through all of this and how to think
about the supply chain of these
armaments. So, Tom, thank you so much
for coming on Odd Lots.
just to begin, what do you do? What is
the focus of your work?
Strategic and International Studies, I
would say is the main defense think tank
in Washington, D.C. It's been around
since,
you know,
I think the '60s and the Cold War.
And within CSIS, there's sort of the
department that focuses on hard power,
to focus on defense department-centric
things. And within that, I run the
Missile Defense Project. And so,
basically, think
mud to space,
UAVs, cruise missiles, ballistic
missiles,
space sensors, you know, everything in
that in that window, both offense and
defense, is what my team kind of
studies, writes about, comments upon,
and hosts just a a lot of events and
commentary.
missiles, this is a question I wanted to
ask, but why do we have defense think
tanks
anyway? Like, why do these exist?
Because if you think about military
conflict in the US, presumably there
should just be one actor engaged in
military conflict with other states at
any one moment of time and that's the
actual US government, the Department of
Defense Department of War. Why
do we need private actors opining on
military uh
tactics, strategy, supply chains at all?
That's a fair question.
Uh and I think I would answer it with
what
uh folks
uh coming out of DOD always say, uh
which is it's the world's largest
bureaucracy uh and uh quite literally
they don't have time to think. That is
what That is what senior officials say
all the time. And when you go in you
also tend not to have new ideas. And so
it's it's kind of an opportunity for
idea generation. Uh and uh this is not
my uh formulation. This is what you you
frequently hear from people who go in
and out of government uh that they need
need those idea generation in a way to
be uh contracted out by those people who
have time. And so now having said that,
a lot of people who go into government
come from the think tank world. Uh come
from the policy world is what I think I
would put it rather. And uh they go out,
they think, they write some things, they
reflect on uh on things and study
things, and then they kind of perhaps go
back in to uh to uh to govern.
perspective. You know, you try to
estimate the size of the arsenal of
various different weapons that the US
has. How transparent is the government
about the size of stockpiles and how
much is one's job from the think tank
world from the outside an exercise in
triangulation, inference, and so forth
to be able to understand these things.
And then just like after besides the
sort of uh
approach you take to measuring these
things, what are some of the numbers
that we're talking about right now?
uh case to case. Uh but I would say in
many respects, although it's the
government's job to
keep a number of things uh secret uh so
that our the bad guys don't know exactly
what we have or how many we have,
rather. I would nevertheless say that to
a very large extent, uh we are a
democracy and a lot of detail is
available in the budget books that go
over to Congress every year when the
budget request, the annual budget
request, comes out.
And so, uh there is a
pretty good amount of tracking. If you
want to understand what kind of Defense
Department you have, look at the money.
Uh and so, there's a there's a decent
amount of of information out there
about, you might say, the garden variety
missiles and the garden variety
……（中部抽样）……
capabilities that have to be, you know,
sensitive, you can get pretty close uh
this as intensely as you have, can you
right now? And what exactly are the
military strategists, so some people
missile. What are the different types
basically there's platforms and there's
1960s, uh there's been a high
kinds and also a standoff capability.
the horizon capabilities that could fly
ocean or find uh, using terrain mapping
there's just been an enormous amount of
uh, a monopoly of the United States as
that's that's the
is simply that which is sent. Uh,
mostly unpowered for most of their
to travel some kind of jet engine or
know, people talk about hypersonic
missile but the maneuverability of uh,
over the years and and as former Biden
thing for which we reach early and often
when the first Trump administration
them. And in this conflict, uh there has
Hundreds and hundreds on the part of
and uh
a a cruise missile, the Shahed uh for
society it was it was conventional
completely and utterly uh
couple times now, uh we've seen an
but combination of effects. And now, you
at some of these things. And what was
phenomenon. After the Ukraine conflict,
Israeli Arrow 3 system for ballistic
and the means to contend with it is very
Long-range fires, missiles, uh and uh
basically kept them uh kept them
[laughter] the office. They won't let me
activity that the US has or how much
defense will not win a war for you, but
helped keep Ukraine sovereign, right? If
situation.
Middle East coming at Israel all at once
were intended to do in a place the size
so, it is it is
Now, what I said last summer after that
I said, "That's going to be a mistake."
do this again in a year or so. And I was
not about It's about capacity. Capacity
to the the the specter
and that would be a very bad day. And
Uh that was last year, again this year.
the chairman
That is not the same as saying that we
with China. And so, we have now cut in
complete numbers are not not been
And so, why that matters, right now
the Middle East.
Chinese adventurism uh or to North
saying
happen. We keep We keep lurching back to
among those who said, "Hey, we we got to
extraordinary
You've heard of the Davidson window,
neighbors by 2027." What I worry about
absolutely not. And that in fact, this
uh very bad.
amount of military movies growing up.
with missiles. And it it seems like
they uh
within the first several days of the
of the Tomahawk missiles, of the JASSM,
targets were serviced by these
even more important as a deterrent, and
that's That's also part of the scary
very curious about the thinking that
this many, you know, maybe shorter-range
an idea of the order of battle of how a
kind of think that through and and
ships, and this is how we might be able
marshal their forces. I will say that
dramatically too low. And so, I'm just
past year that gratify this in different
number of how many Patriot PAC-3
something to 13,000 something.
Russians use enormous numbers of
actual conflict this would ramp up
involved, even before that,
uh ramping up a number of missiles of
could spare any ATACMS to give to
munitions over the past uh past four
Feinberg, who comes out of the private
came in and began to call in the CEOs of
to say, "We need to maximize
Memorial Day last year, over the next
figuring out of just how many Tomahawks
production we could do on and on. And so
publicized and at least in press
announced THAAD and PAC-3 Patriot that
we're going to go from, by the way, from
of Tomahawks. And what I would say is
uh are
That was all before we went to war with
hasn't begun because the money wasn't
the report language said, "Oh, by the
short of what the Pentagon requested
billion and change shortfall for FY 26.
seven-year
vaporized many billions of dollars and
and it's not a very good picture. And so
near term.
Votes have to happen to say we're going
talk about the binding physical
facilities that we have, the natural
process. We all would love, I presume,
have to choose between Korea and the
up production?
day saying that we had a virtually
well, the reality
And you got to like uh supply chain
facility in Tucson, Arizona that cranks
the supply chain, it is
to ascertain, is there's a lot of
the past several years, there's been a
Trying to figure out and understand,
But nevertheless, the primes, the
illuminating in terms of the bottlenecks
trying to A, get private capital
it, I said, "I really want to know one
uh asymmetric advantage, to use that
I think there's a number of initiatives
matter to defense. The other thing
Everybody knows SpaceX and space launch
motors. Uh I think this is good. I think
same time there is the risk that we're
essentially means there's two big
by uh the Pentagon. Uh that is L3 Harris
subsumed uh Orbital ATK in the past. And
administration put $216 million into
away from
A third ex- type of experiment and this
he's doing something very different
own dimes I mean a lot of dimes because
internal funds, publicly traded
sticking your neck out. And there has
The customer has not been very reliable
cyclical. And so that hurts the the
that's why you need multi-year
it off the ground.
about if we can't ramp up production
But are missiles like, I don't know,
and use it now?" And then if so, what
headline out there right now saying that
States who need some of their missiles
uh the Trump administration 1.0 or 2.0
executive order a couple weeks ago
we're we've always kind of done that
to buy more American uh made products."
seekers and things that that hit bullets
there are uh 18 countries. There used to
And the Biden administration had to
uh couple years back because they had to
on the one hand we're telling them buy
orders of the things you already
merely for US
And we want them to to buy it not not
some of these things. But because we
destroyers and our Tomahawk weapon
there has been a lot of leaning on the
of makes sense for them to be ponying up
And they and a handful of other
much a global phenomenon and there are
deliveries of of systems, the
SAMP/T air defense system rather than
schedule because there's a long queue of
the asymmetry of these very ostensibly
cheap as advertised, there could just be
these numbers that you see like $20,000
equation?
You know, I think the Iranian Shaheds
……（接近结尾）……
we were transferring a bunch of
munitions to Israel. And when you look
at it, and you look at what's in that
list, it was gravity bombs. And the
reason that we've gotten there is we no
longer have to do the stand-off stuff.
That's good. We can now do the stand-in,
you know, flying over top and dropping
things. But to your point, it's still
hard to do all that from the air, and
there is going to be that uncertainty,
which is why frankly
you're not going to have perfect
military certainty from the air.
To really end this, you're going to have
to have like I would say a political
change.
on Odd Lots. I learned a lot from this.
Really appreciate you taking your time.
Winchester with words.
phrase, going Winchester. That's like a
That comes up in movies.
in Vietnam, so I
Yeah, I have a very mixed feelings about
all of this.
extremely difficult,
I don't know, game theory equilibrium
problem to get right. And you know, you
because you have the monopsony buyer.
The It's a monopsony buyer, but it's
also political, and the political winds
are going to change. You have, you know,
companies that are naturally
profit-seeking and profit-maximizing.
And many of them, and he alluded to
this, we didn't talk about it that much,
are monopoly sellers, right? Like if
there's one component if there and we
know all about how with advanced supply
chains of complicated things, you might
have million or thousands of parts that
go into it, and some of these parts may
be produced by one company. Maybe
there's like a shiny mirror or something
somewhere that's only produced by one
optical factory somewhere in the United
States. Then you have the Buy American
requirements, so that further narrows
supply chains, etc. So you have
monopolies and monopsonies facing off,
and then, you know, how do you get to
sustain spending, sustain procurement
through the ebbs and tides of a war?
Extremely difficult challenge.
players in military procurement. And the
other thing is like most of the time
what you're planning for is a
hypothetical Yeah. conflict, right? If
an actual conflict emerges, then I I
guess you have some more certainty to a
degree about what you need to actually
fight it. But, you know, if just a few
years ago, if you're sat there and
you're going like should we be buying
stuff for war with Iran? Should we be
buying stuff for China doing something
with Taiwan? Like these are very
different theaters of war. And I imagine
that if you're a procurement officer,
like
the temptation must be to you always
want to have the best like newest
shiniest stuff. And so I'm just
fascinated by how people actually make
those decisions in the face of both
monetary limits and physical reality and
political reality as well, which we kind
of we we glided past, but for obvious
reasons.
are photos of uh US packing up uh THAAD
missile defense systems from South
Korea.
of it it feels very
when you see the photos, it you do not
feel like oh we're a major superpower.
It's like oh here are these missiles.
Sorry, we're we're taking we have to
move them elsewhere because we don't
have enough right now. It's pretty it's
pretty shocking, but you know, like it's
it's hard it's hard to argue against the
fact that we seem to be spread very thin
these days. The war in Iran the war in
Ukraine continues to go on. Obviously,
there's this new war in Iran. And then
as you mentioned, you know, at least
since the Obama administration, they've
been talking about the pivot to Asia and
so forth and we that keeps not
happening, but there are obligations on
the ground there. Um
the whole thing seems spread very thin.
of the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Tracy
Alloway. You can follow me at Tracy
Alloway.
me at The Stallwart. Follow our guest
Tom Keurko. He's at Tom Keurko. Follow
our producers Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen
Armond, Dash Bennett at Dashbot, and
Keil Brooks at Keil Brooks.
you should check out our daily
newsletter. You can find that at
bloomberg.com/odd
lots.
including defense 24/7 in our discord
with fellow listeners discord.gg/odd
lots.
then please leave a comment or like the
video or better yet, subscribe.