TITLE: Why Leonardo was a saboteur, Gutenberg went broke, and Florence was weird – Ada Palmer
CHANNEL: Dwarkesh Podcast
DURATION_S: 7340  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-06T17:34:29+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PAIhVfGbREA
SHA256: 0b618b560536cdbbcdb02ebada63c2f2735072a214b9e9a2bb901c1ba6f6b6e6

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1600] 1600. When all different kinds of people
  [1000] a book. They go with 1,000 copies of
  [1490] sustainable. It's not until the 1490s
  [1500] 1500s, so it's been a little over a
  [1200] if it's 1200 or 1500.
  [1450] printing press comes in in 1450, and it
  [90%] rate of 90%. As of the 16th century? As
  [1100] 1100. So, those changes are all real and
  [1432] sorry, in 1432,
  [1400] as a learned inventor in the 1400s and
  [1620] in the 1620s and 1630s and Galileo is
  [1630] in the 1620s and 1630s and Galileo is
  [1.5] $1.5 million worth of money to buy
  [1492] 1492, Columbus
  [30000] 30,000 people can read it in the 30
  [1560] 1560s, 1580s. 180 years after 160 years
  [1580] 1560s, 1580s. 180 years after 160 years
  [50000] is offering $50,000 to the top write-ups
  [4%] people." Popolo meant the top 4%
  [1434] before 1434 and Well, then there's a
  [10000] you are told, "We want 10,000 florins
  [1430] 30 1430 and 1432, uh Cosimo has bad
  [300000] $300,000 to the guard outside the cell
  [700000] and $700,000 to the, um,
  [5%] ruled by the 5% instead of being ruled
  [1970] right? Meaning certainly in the 1970s
  [1510] then, in the 1510s, it's time for
  [1506] here you are in 1506
  [2026] are in 2026 often feeling nostalgic for
  [2000] how things were in the year 2000, right?
  [1320] different, and people in the 1320s are
  [65%] and 65% of people on Earth who have
  [1991] history, bar none, since 1991. And what
  [1300] Agriculture in France was better in 1300
  [1650] accelerated after 1650?
  [10.99] like oh, if I can get this for $10.99,
  [5000] books or 5,000 books. There are
  [1700] on parchment in the 1700s and 1800s.
  [1800] on parchment in the 1700s and 1800s.
  [600000] $600,000 per book, and I'm like and then

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Today, I'm chatting with Ada Palmer,
who's a Renaissance historian, a
novelist, a composer, based at the
University of Chicago. And today we're
discussing your book, Inventing the
Renaissance. Ada, thanks for coming on
the podcast.
You've got in this period in the late
15th century, early 16th century in
Italy, all these different republics.
Venice, Florence, Genoa.
Um, and that seems unusual both for the
time period and for the place. Yeah.
the Italian city republics are clustered
in Italy is that when the Roman Empire
dissolved in the West,
individual cities then needed to
self-govern. And this is true all across
Europe, right? And those individual
cities could no longer get the
centralized Roman government to oversee
supply routes, keep the roads free of
bandits. Uh, you could no longer import
and export goods at scale. You could no
longer rely on central infrastructure.
You had to support things yourself.
Larger, wealthier towns were able to
make this transition because they could
support themselves from the local
resources and the farms attached to
them. So, the larger, wealthier towns
surrounded by good agricultural land
were more successful at converting over
to, "Okay, let's have a senate like the
old Roman senate. Let's have our top
families form a council. They will rule.
We'll set up a republic." A weaker town
that can't support itself as well is
much more prone to one wealthy family
realizes that they can get goons and
take over and declare themselves the
monarch of the area. Or worse, this town
cannot self-sustain. It doesn't have
enough. People there can't get food.
They are scared. They're afraid of being
robbed by people who are desperate. But
outside of town, there is a wealthy
villa that belongs to a noble family and
they have bodyguards. "Hey, noble
family, if I move next to your villa and
work for you, will you protect me with
your bodyguards? So, towns emptied out
and villages, as in villa and its
environs, developed as a result. And a
village was a monarchal structure in
this sense that was the migration of
people out of a town into the protection
zone of a local lordling, right? And
then those villages grew to different
scale. Some of them cities, some not.
So, Italy had great agriculture and
great agricultural land. So, more of
Italy's cities were able to sustain
themselves as towns and be republics.
I feel like
the big take of your book is they're
trying to resuscitate
Roman virtues. What were the things that
What were the virtues that the Roman
emperors had which allowed this you
know, the safety and good government
etc. to work? And um I don't understand
the connection between reading Cicero
and contemplating the virtues of a great
emperor to dot dot dot science and
technology.
think there is one and what what exactly
is that connection? Well, as with many
processes, the answer is there are
multiple steps and it's complicated and
some of the steps are realizing that the
earlier steps didn't work.
So, Petrarch
who lives through the Black Death and
lives in a moment when Italy is racked
by civil war
and uh foreign mercenary troops are
raiding and pillaging. Italy is racked
by bandits. When Petrarch survives the
Black Death after losing so many
friends, he gets a letter uh two of his
friends are alive. Uh he had given up
that anyone he knew would survive, but
two of his younger scholar friends are
alive. They're going to come visit him.
On the way they were attacked by bandits
and one of them was killed and the other
was lost in the mountains and wounded
and he didn't know that his friend was
alive for another year and a half,
right? So, the bandits are very real in
this period and Petrarch looks around
him and says, "This is an age of ash and
shadow.
Uh what we need is to imitate the arts
of the ancients. Let's try to figure out
how the Romans did it."
And specifically, the problem is our
leaders. Our leaders are selfish. Our
leaders care more about their wealth and
their family honor and their power than
they do about the people.
This is where Romeo and Juliet is really
helpful for us to understand, right?
Lord Montague and Lord Capulet, as their
goons are knifing each other in the
street, they care about defeating each
other.
Do they care about the good of Italy?
Do they care about the good of the city
of Verona? No. Their feud is harming the
city of Verona and they don't care.
Uh they demand that Romeo get away with
murder because he is their son, right?
Uh that is not service to the state. And
uh Petrarch reads about the ancient
Roman Brutus, not the one who killed
Caesar, but the ancestor to whom that
one was trying to live up. Brutus, one
of the first consuls of Rome, and he
learned while in office that his sons
were plotting to take over the state and
make him king.
So, he executed his own sons for treason
against the state. Can you imagine Lord
Montague wanting to execute Romeo for
treason against Verona? He would never
do that. So, when you're living in the
plot of Romeo and Juliet and you read
about these ancient Roman figures as
described in the lofty lofty biographies
of someone like Livy,
you read them and you say, "Wow, if only
our leaders would act like that." Well,
how were they raised? Can we raise our
leaders the same way? Can we make
libraries filled with what young Cicero
read and what young Brutus read? What
did they read? Well, they read Plato and
they read Homer. So, we need these
things. Can we recreate the educational
environment that produced them?
And Petrarch suggests this. His students
and successors embrace this idea and
pour money into traveling across the
Alps to look for manuscripts, traveling
to Constantinople to purchase
manuscripts from the wealthier East
where books are common,
and bringing them back to assemble these
libraries and then raise tutors like
Marsilio Ficino who can know Greek and
Latin and in
surround the young princes and
princesses of Europe with these values
in the hopes that they will act like
Brutus and not like Cicero. This is
based on an assumption that education is
very much like osmosis. That if you're
exposed to something, you'll imitate it.
And the uptake of this is strong because
Italy is also full of upstart rulers who
just seized power 5 minutes ago by
having a coup in their state and have no
legitimacy and no right to be ruling
what they're ruling and are resented by
their people, but they can dress up like
a Roman emperor and they can have a
parade with allegorical figures of the
virtues next to them and they can invest
in an impressive palace that has a
pediment on the front and looks like a
Roman building to the to the eyes of the
period and um
uh cover themselves with the trappings
of antiquity and then people might look
at them and say, "Oh, this guy is
different from what we've had. This guy
is like the Caesars." The days of the
Caesars were pretty good. Maybe we want
this guy. Maybe he's not going to be a
tyrant. Maybe he's going to be a good
prince and he's going to make a golden
age. And so, the first dream is
idealistic. Let's make better rulers.
The adoption is self-serving and
propagandistic. Hey, I'm a tyrant, but I
can seem like something better than just
a tyrant. If I make myself look like
Julius Caesar, then people will like and
respect me. Or in the case of Florence
with the Medici, we are merchant scum
and we are dirt compared to everybody
around us. We're not even one of the
important families of Florence. We're
like three ranks down even on the
standards of merchant scum. We're extra
scummy merchant scum. But, if we can
have Latin and Greek and quote Cicero
and seem like the ancients, people will
take us seriously and respect us and
talk to us even if we don't have it. So,
let me give
an example, right? So, imagine that you
are
an ambassador from France and you're on
……（中部抽样）……
your way to Rome uh cuz a new pope has
to the throne, for example. Um and so
on the grounds that you have ever once
you've ever seen except for old Roman
about the air is cool and fresh. It's
the corner are some men wearing robes
hear him recite it?" And now there's a
any nobility, so it can't marry anybody,
like this. And then when the ambassador
deaths, and more betrayals, and bigger
Livy, right? He was raised on the
observes these wars and he observes
"What if the libraries are what we need,
imitate those choices. This is one of
Napoleon.
printing press now. We're having
slice of expert Latin classes is going
They wonder whether they can test the
bit more.
that the chain of causation here is
but there's so many stories, and it's
useful to think about
developed this ecosystem of information
book? Very few.
of access to scientific, intellectual,
focuses I have is
periods. Yeah.
also finding it interesting that
uh you know, he was sure that when we
in these books.
was trying to make.
made a world that doesn't share his
can treat the Black Death and he would
LLMs and asked people to figure out what
insane if you could figure it out.
all of these republics, except Florence,
majority. That is how Venice works. That
the nobility. And after one particular
set up a commoner republic. So, what
the diplomatic corps of any other
coat of arms, right? That would be
power that he had in the city to try to
rule the city from that tower. They're
kill the nobles, salt the earth, I'm
everybody works for somebody who works
accustomed in the modern period to
employer will survive supply your
turns to his landlord.
doesn't have any confidence in what we
familiar. This feels like documents of
through like five different forms of
guilds be important and have important
office was something that you did to
that they are they are doing the same
corridor as we call it, which was built
stories of different people's houses.
is our tower. This tower has been ours
therefore more rights like property
That is what you do when you don't fear
a great example of how even when
Mhm. Right? And reme- remembering
necessary and how they were able to make
The central power will say, "We expect x
the person who is collecting and
that again briefly, uh if you have a
payroll. And nine guys at random are
sorry, in 1432,
let him out of there, but they weren't
quote about this is, "It is dangerous to
time, a government in which he himself
by one dictator. And to us that isn't a
it's really confusing. So it's easier
enemy.
X place and wait. And if you're good,
London. Be our contact in London. Be
back." What they expect, what everyone
places that it's expected
important things and I will live at the
and you read the way he talks to his
iteration of my city. I support my
And he has seen the streets of his city
Claw a Mercury debit card, and I set a
they made the card system, but the
FDIC.
mass-produced commodities, right? Mass
several decades younger than e-book
people in Europe that want this, but
from A to B, you go to Venice, you
1,000 copies of one book and then they
coming in successively causing crises
sustainable. It's not until the 1490s
It's one information revolution having
possible even a decade earlier when you
oh, history just seems to be happening
are in 2026 often feeling nostalgic for
rose, and things fell. It's the lies we
and then once you get into Industrial
interesting.
more realistic, that's separate, but the
11 major technical revolutions over the
um
hygiene improve, half of that is
unsystematic and people have discovered
it. This is where, when I'm doing this
discovers down in coded mirror writing,
and they say, "Oh, how did they do it?
in the 1500s, but as you get to 1600 the
it.
organ of his own being to produce
do this, if we make academies of
in the 1620s and 1630s and Galileo is
Agriculture in France was better in 1300
Uh, and so what we would say is there
and then
hockey stick. Uh humans would also have
website, The Renaissance in Italy. I for
how much richer per square meter
quality wool.
somewhere in industrially ambitious that
giant industrialization is happening.
machines and whatever before you, it's
uh
in the vicinity and then give me the
instruction following. For example, a
So, not only does printing get cheaper,
surface of antiquity. It is a easy
libraries in any mid-size city will have
without papyrus,
a villa in the countryside. Right? This
thousands of books. There are libraries
And here you are with a library of a
save? I know, Saint Augustine. I love
a mill for a very long time until they
frozen pre-packaged meals.
has paper for 400 years before the
on vellum.
books, but you're still not trusting
the numbers of like how how expensive a
worth of
days they've printed a fashion report on
two or four days to print a pamphlet
maid, cut out her heart and ate it, and
lint is what rag paper is. And if you
funeral, very exciting. Um Uh so
being used in this context. And it was
reputation. They have to be respectable.
very brittle. Um it works better in a
That
So,
which you make make all your notes and
industrial effort going into making the
combustion engine
rocks."
"Gutenberg was an inventor and invented
nowhere. It's at this point it was the
contemporary with Luther. Um, it's just
go vroom vroom vroom vroom vroom vroom
uh, persecute printers is
you find out first
still move. So, pamphlets become
evading that. You've You've had to leave
records of this. There's a brilliant uh
could make it scary, but it couldn't
single
Uh and being betrayed by his friend
Interesting. If that if even Cicero
the New World. What is the What is the
discovered the New World. Um
they don't realize they've found
Spain. Spain is suddenly trying to throw
country.
the same time. So, the discovery of the
the Earth around the sun when the French
……（接近结尾）……
mathematician for the Habsburg emperor,
which basically means that he's doing
astronomy and I'm sorry, astrology for
the astrology for generals. Like, will
we will we win the battle or whatever?
Um and then he gets excommunicated. Not
for the laws of planetary motion, but
because he's a Lutheran.
Lutheranism. Um and in fact, his mother
is tried for witchcraft. Has nothing to
do with the science, just cuz she's also
a Lutheran. Yeah, Milton, uh of Paradise
Lost fame, wrote our first big defense
of the free press.
And this is in the moment in the early
1600s when England doesn't yet have
systematic censorship law. It has ad
hoc, "Hey, this book is bad." But it
doesn't have systematic, "You must
submit all books to a censor." the way
the Catholic world does by that point.
The Catholic world developed it in order
to fight Protestantism.
Um and there's a there's a lot of
support for creating censorship in
England at the time because there's
anxiety about papists plotting against
our nice non-Catholic
country trying to undermine it.
Um there's a you know general feeling of
anxiety, but also there's deliberate
moral panic, right? Whipped up by
politicians and and power-seeking people
who whip up a deliberate deliberate
moral panic about books. The same way in
1954 there was a moral panic about comic
books or the same way there was a moral
panic about Dungeons &amp; Dragons in the
'90s, right? Um there's a moral panic
about scary and dangerous books and
pamphlets. And so there's a movement to
create state censorship for the first
systematic systematic time in England.
And Milton writes this big treatise
about why freedom of the press is
important, the Areopagitica. Beautifully
written rhetorical piece that presents
the importance of, you know, we must
trust truth
to to rise purely to the top. We must
let free voices move, otherwise you're
going to create a situation where people
are writing for the censor first and for
the public second. It will sort of
constrain people's thought in the way
that we know chilling effects and fear
do. It's a beautiful treatise.
He fails. The censorship regime passes.
Paradise Lost is published under the
censorious regime. It goes through the
censorship. The one line they tell him
to change is about astrology. They're
like, "It's perfectly fine having Satan
be your charismatic protagonist and God
be kind of a jackass and
and also having Satan spout rhetoric
ferocious anti-monarchical
rhetoric copied from revolutionary
pamphlets that are circulating in the
British colonies so that he's actually
parroting Republican anti-monarchical
rhetoric, very dangerous stuff in the
treatise. That's fine. But this one line
about a comet causing a thing to happen,
no no no no no. Astrology is going to
confuse people's souls and you're like,
guys,
you're so wrong about what you're
censoring. But they always are. You have
one sentence which I couldn't trace
down,
which I have found very interesting
where you said, in the late 17th
century, the most extensive library in
all of Europe is the one in the Vatican
run by the inquisitors. Not the library,
the most extensive
experimental laboratory.
Maccullia is the scholar there. That's
from his dissertation. Though I think
it's been published now, but I don't
know if it's actually out in English.
It's out in Italian. And he works on the
inquisition in the immediate aftermath
of Galileo. Cuz they saw themselves as
guarantors of truth and of accuracy and
information. And so they decided after
Galileo that they had a duty to verify
the truth of the books that they were
sent to censor. And then if people were
going to be doing mechanical
experiments, they needed to repeat the
mechanical experiments to see whether
they were true. So they effectively the
inquisition invented peer review.
laboratory trying to recreate the
results of the first. And they're these
amazing people who by day are
inquisitors and by night are going home
to write their own scientific treatises
as they do these experiments. It's not
what we expect. Interesting. Um, but
history is never what we expect.
Seems like a good place to close.
Ada, thank you very much. Thank you.