TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/5/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8625  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-05T17:37:40+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qj4cQK4ai78
SHA256: cc4755dddd6ad2a35802561dca6843d6419e20cc7a101dd9b09fe76e13bbd8ff

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] Shares are down more than 1%. That's
  [3%] leaning more towards 3%. Uh now we have
  [2022] since 2022."
  [2%] within 2% of alltime highs on the S&amp;P
  [6800] trading range on the S&amp;P 6800 to 7,000.
  [23000] topping 23,000. And China is telling the
  [10.7] the $10.7 billion it's projecting for
  [4%] a half maybe 4%. Let's see where oil
  [5%] half to 5% growth in 2026 is the first
  [8%] about 8% on Tuesday, but the the energy
  [2.8%] 2.8% 8% which sounds good except it was
  [7000] trading range on the S&amp;P 6800 to 7,000.
  [2026] 2026 as very similar in some ways to
  [10%] the last 48 hours. Up 10% today, down
  [12%] 12% yesterday. Today, the biggest 1-day
  [2008] rally since 2008. Yesterday, the biggest
  [2000] more than 2,000 Iranian targets inside
  [7%] the pre-market by more than 7% off the
  [30%] is down more than 30% this year. It
  [13%] shares are plunging 13% in the
  [9%] between 9% inflation that we saw during
  [2025] uh in 2025 so yes steady interest rates
  [48000] totaling just over 48,000 in February.
  [25%] great entry point. You've seen 20 to 25%
  [5.2%] uh up by 5.2% in the third quarter. So
  [20122] 20122. The components were good. We got
  [1973] with the exception of the 1973 oil
  [40%] correct at more than 40%. So, where are
  [2024] and even 2024 when people said this is
  [9.63%] 9.63%
  [8310] Brain crude up by 2% 8310 WTI 7656
  [7656] Brain crude up by 2% 8310 WTI 7656
  [7660] moment we're at 83 on WTI at about 7660.
  [16%] more than 16% in the pre-market on a
  [0.6%] estimated 0.6% annual rate. Lina joins
  [2023] formal downgrade since 2023 with China
  [8338] barrel just a few days ago, $8338.
  [8360] starting to bounce again. Bren 8360. WTI
  [1955] um, since 1955 when GDP has been over
  [19.5%] 19.5% in those years. So, and it's the

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
My issue coming into the year is risk
was mispriced.
different existential fears.
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, tension builds. The war
with Iran entering its sixth day with no
sign of deescalation as problems are
mounting for aviation. Cancelled flights
topping 23,000. And China is telling the
nation's largest refineries to suspend
gasoline exports. Energy advancing this
morning.
entire altercation. Right now, people
want to be optimistic that there's going
to be a short end. They want to be
optimistic that they can go back into
risk assets and we saw that yesterday.
But then you get uh news items like an
oil tanker offshore of Kuwait getting
hit and possibly leaking. Turns out it's
water. But either way, people definitely
on edge this morning.
and you're going to see more. Massively
exposed, vulnerable to the supply coming
out of the Middle East. There's a bit of
good news. There's a cushion here.
Refineries typically have 2 to 3 weeks
of inventories. You've seen China
stockpiling onshore over the last year
or so. And you've seen a lot of Iranian
crude held offshore in tankers. Now,
that's going to last two to three weeks.
And from there, things get a lot harder,
which is why people keep going back to
the calendar. The longer it goes on, the
harder it becomes.
yesterday of Seni Research, which is
that ultimately people, if you look at
the forward-looking curve, people are
expecting this to be resolved. They're
expecting there to be some sort of day
where there is a resolution and oil can
get flowing again. What will it take for
people to gain confidence and then go
back to risk assets? The fact that
yesterday we got that rally. I really do
think that that is indicative of where
people's minds are. There are a lot of
whatifs that look pretty terrible there.
People want to look past that right now.
past few days, we haven't made new lows
in the equity market and we haven't made
new highs in the commodity market. Now,
there's an old line on Wall Street. If
you want to make a fool of someone, ask
them to make a prediction on crude. And
everyone is making a prediction on crude
right now. That's where the market is.
So the epicenter of a lot of this is a
bet that maybe the biggest part of the
rally is over.
seeing Saudi Arabia go to other
channels. The Red Sea for example, which
isn't exactly safe passage. Nonetheless,
they are trying to divert over there.
There also are pipelines. There also is
this shadow fleet as you were talking
about the fact uh that China and Japan
and some of the Southeast Asian
countries have some alternatives after
depending on this region. That said, the
question is how far will it go before
people start to price this in? And does
the market have to respond to offer up
the check to policy to maybe change
course? And this is sort of where we
were in April of last year. How much is
the market the ultimate arbiter of how
long this can go on
within 2% of alltime highs on the S&amp;P
500. The stock market is certainly not
pushing back and the balls are starting
to line up. So we'll catch up with
Jonathan Kinsky of BTIG later. He thinks
we're right for a bounce. Eric Johnston
looking for the same thing. I've seen
similar from Goldman, similar from
Citadel. You're starting to see more and
more people get interested right here.
technicals and saying there's been sort
of a flushing out of some of the pain
trades. Think about all the people who
are short dollar assets. All of a sudden
the dollar rips and that kind of uh
turns that all on its head. The Cosby
selling off in tandem with silver. I
mean there are a lot of these correlated
trades and you wonder how much that's
already been washed out. We also got
some data and I think this is important.
Yesterday we got ISM services climbing
to the highest levels going back to
20122. The components were good. We got
ADP numbers that came out at the highest
levels going back seven months. So if
you look at the underlying economy, it's
fine. It's doing okay. So at this point,
people want to take a look at those
fundamentals and not necessarily make
what ultimately is a fool's game.
morning at 8:30 Eastern time. Look at
the claims data. And then onto Friday,
we'll look ahead to payrolls data
tomorrow morning. Coming up this hour,
no Dixon of State Street with stocks
looking to sustain momentum. Brian
Gardner of Stifel as Iran escalates its
retaliation and Ben Writers of Melius as
big tech pledges to cover energy costs.
We begin this hour with stock steady
with all eyes on geopolitics. Null Dixon
of State Street writing, "We expect
volatility for markets to continue in
the medium-term as investors reluctantly
accept the new reality of reacelerating
inflation." Null joins us now for more.
Null, good morning.
makes that so real for you?
certainly piling up. I think before this
event occurred, 3-month annualized uh
inflation when we look at PCE was
leaning more towards 3%. Uh now we have
this uh potential for an energy shock. I
don't think anyone really knows uh where
it's going to end up and we know that
the transmission mechanism as it relates
to energy prices into goods prices for
example that's a lot more quicker than
say tariffs if you will. So I think
we're going to have a situation uh even
when we look at PPI the financial
components the healthcare components
January PCE is going to be pretty firm.
So I think we're going to have this
inflation that uh investors are going to
have to come to grips with. Um and I
think that could be problematic for risk
moving forward.
get into equities. Sure. Tonyear bond
yields right now closer to four than
425.
problem and I think it's a it's actually
an opportunity I think to go short the
long end. Um I think whether you look at
uh real growth or I think inflation
expectations will start to pick up uh
break evens will start to break out. I
think that's a real opportunity to short
the long end.
long risk in assets like stocks in
assets like credit?
think right now we've been in this
trading range on the S&amp;P 6800 to 7,000.
Um, and I think uh when the data starts
to come out and people start to grapple
with the reality that inflation's here
to stay at least for the next few
prints, I think we could break out to to
the low side on equities. And I'm I'm
eyeing more like the 200 day moving
average.
especially if they're not longived, they
typically are transitory. They
typically, if anything, could be even
disinflationary because they jack up
prices and they reduce consumer spending
power. Why is this term this time
different in terms of its longerterm
ramifications in the bond market and
forward-looking expectations that
haven't really woken up to that yet?
territory. Um because, you know,
typically I think investors are
reluctant to uh get rid of risk exposure
because geopolitical events, it's never
wise to overreact and that's been the
typical train of thought. On average,
equities recover over 43 days on average
with the exception of the 1973 oil
embargo. And if you recall, equities
correct at more than 40%. So, where are
we? I think we're somewhere in the
middle of that. Um, and I think it's
only a matter of time before markets
start to embrace that aspect.
we get higher nominal growth with hot
inflation, unequity is a good hedge for
that. that they typically perform well
against that backdrop and a Federal
Reserve is not willing to step in and
hike anytime soon.
valuations are. I think valuations are
are very highly priced and keep in mind
it's all about DCF uh discounted cash
flows and that longerterm rate. I think
……（中部抽样）……
there's going to be some pressure and a
picks. How are how do you know you're
that could be naive to do so let's let's
came back and said, "Tell me what
some sort of bounce at this point saying
up a little bit later. Let's keep an
resuming talks with the defense
the last 48 hours. Up 10% today, down
that certain things connected to energy
Middle East conflict entering its sixth
uh undergone. Now the US and Israel are
watched war powers resolution which
Sensitivity to the Dow or is it gas
to start. They're much harder to stop.
Uh so again this is a this is a
candidates, John Corner and the senator,
Republican majority so they can avoid
on. Now you want I think Republicans
the top uh story of the evening news and
type of legacy. He keeps pointing to it.
Trump put? It seems like there is still
prices begin to weigh on the outlook for
members max draw down this year 12%.
yesterday. The strongest we've seen in a
he supposedly takes over later this
an area that could become a major
100 days plus.
sport. It's something you go and play in
disrupted. China pivoting to its
you." A lot of operators say, "I think
are choose choosing to pass through it.
west pipeline so that they can start
the Iranian side is maintaining that
there's a question here. I keep going
exporter over the last decade or so. And
the reasons why inflation expectations
a half maybe 4%. Let's see where oil
of this. You're seeing that getting
look at company guidance relative to
not services. I've got some energy bills
you an update on stories worldwide this
business lines. The drop in headcount is
unchanged on the S&amp;P, on the NASDAQ, the
forces and start to try to push back in
Executives from Microsoft, Meta,
road. So it it helps grease the wheel
to be. They'll underperform any given
systems play uh helping shepherd the
investors love to see free cash flow.
revenues as early as 28, more likely 29
they did a better job with AI uh it's
be from the hyperscalers to Nvidia and
after bouncing in yesterday's session
dissonance is intention as we get data
other places as well, like Saudi Arabia,
Right now, we produce between 13 to 14
currency and all of a sudden it triggers
begin this hour with stocks edging lower
in history, when you've had strong
risks around um some of the things that
that the Cosby for example was
sentiment has gotten hit and so when you
attractive right now. So, you know, the
sheets um secular growth. I think the
happening in the Middle East or not? Um
we are right now. And I don't think also
why this move might not be so
very strong position in the conflict and
region have been trying to make their
We're down by.1%. Similar move on the
the world. And I think we have great
will choose the next Supreme Leader. But
In fact, President Trump said earlier
Victoria, welcome to the program. The
government. There is a very hardline
be well received by the Iranian people.
by the military action of the United
Well, what what it means is that they
and there's increasing pressure by
the capabilities of AI, we've been able
want our conclusions and recommendations
fascinating project. We're considering
Five more minutes with Victoria Coats.
grinding higher just a little bit not by
more data except for Governor Myron who
their best quarter in terms of revenue
radar this morning, the Senate clearing
that more trouble lies ahead for private
looking to go back and tweak some of the
billion, which is essentially twice the
be expanding in a significant fashion.
The door is open." But if you walk
through to longerterm inflation, to
administration take a pretty
to a shock in any one of the major
market for oil. I think the LG question
expectations about inflation on the
the risk of a much more traditional
if you're looking for reliable hedging
portfolios across a wide range of
but that capex is also going to be a key
fund managers are saying including Mark
Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more. Hey,
betting the stock has more room to fall
and Yhara went through some of the
Amazon and FedEx and announced
You're still seeing industrials,
trading range for the S&amp;P between 78
of encouragement too?
of premium tends to uh also indicate a
are in a decent spot. Um, but I I don't
market that saw the biggest draw down
um relative to US equities. So all those
broken the progress they made um you
hour of Blimp Surveillance up next.
hours away.
news.
going to be the bulk for a lot of risk
that happens, if that happens, and it's
lower, still around 2% away from
around the most, 20 to 30% of the
optimistic here. The the data in America
completely different. I mean, watch what
areas of the market, whether it's
rally. So which conflict is this? That's
supply of alternatives, and commercial
inflation in a higher inflation world
massive leasing great pricing. The
that's happening is means robotics,
high power. But I also need to be in a
right now Googling regions that have
Meanwhile, on that note, Saudi Arabia is
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
think will be a viable uh a very viable
whether we have an economic trajectory
higher by more than 2%. WTI up by three.
joins us now for more. Jed, welcome.
at what is driving up prices and we've
from uh the the rape base or
seeing the highest uh increase in
most RTO's that have over 10% of
which should lead to lower prices not
the supply chain. So anything that's
Scott Strrazik back in Davos at the
the emotion because there have been a
turn to the price action together. We
captured in jobless claims, initial
surface.
that's the case. Also, productivity up
productivity and deliver it some of that
in terms of crowding out other spending.
through a long-term shock. And I think
private label or uh trading down to
absorb too much and if we see more price
it on fully in prices. And when you
unemployment was ticking up. I I will
is monetary policy set at a place where
Worsh's nomination's finally gone up to
And so I I think we'll uh I look forward
speak as much.
important decisions and also to feel
what Tom Bach had just said. I want
something else. How much longer is it
coming in at 213,000
City who finished yesterday's match
processes, new staffing models,
of rate cut off the table, at least for
……（接近结尾）……
saw some hiring in construction jobs
this month which is very very uh good
sign going forward. I think it's tied to
a lot of data center employment. We also
small small businesses really take up
the hiring mantle. So most of the job
gains came from firms with under 50
employees. That's great news. But I'd
like to turn to the pricing side of the
price quantity framework that we use in
economics because we will see uh job
gains that I think will be in the 60s
for the private sector. We had 63,000 uh
reported for February uh with pretty
stable job growth. It's really all the
action is in wages and if wages hold up
like they have been I think that is a
good underskirt a good support for
consumer spending. Well, well, just to
build on that, Nila, what are you seeing
in terms of initial data? Is there an
increase in wages that seems
commensurate with inflation or even
above it that suggests a really robust
hiring market?
that question, Lisa. The first is
overall wages are holding up well. In
fact, we saw a bump in new hire pay, a
bump we hadn't seen in months going back
to a year and a half. So in January that
bump went up from $18 an hour for new
hires to 19 and it's stuck in February.
Great news. Um we're actually seeing
stability in our uh pay insights data.
This is individual match data for job
stayers sticking at four and a half for
several months but and that's this is
where we turn. Small businesses are
doing the lion share of employment gains
in February and they're less likely to
increase wages. in that their pay growth
is under current inflation levels. So
the new jobs may not keep up pace the
same way that these older jobs have. At
the same time, that's the broadening out
that a lot of people have wanted to see
in terms of the types of companies that
do the hiring. Smaller companies do
account for the bulk of hiring in the
country. I'm just wondering what you're
seeing on the margins with the
structural changes to that hiring. Are
you seeing more sort of new college
graduates getting hired? some of the
areas that had bigger pain start to
soften a little bit.
here, Lisa. If we're broadening out, uh
we're broadening out across
establishments, but we're still very
concentrated in healthcare and education
services. We are still very tied to the
demographics of an aging population,
less to the cyclical productivity growth
that you would expect at this point. uh
given what we what has been a pretty
solid economic picture. So, I'm still
waiting for that broadening out. I'm
still waiting for the college uh
graduate uh drive and new hires. Uh it's
not lost on us at ADP that uh the Gen Z
are digital uh natives. They're savvy
and we want them in the workforce. Uh so
we still have a bit of ways to go before
we see that entire broadening not just
across establishment size but across
sectors especially in professional
business services which we reported as
being very weak in February.
up to speed on things tracking the data.
Nether Richardson there of ADP a couple
of data points I like in the labor
market. We both like the quits rate. Do
people feel confident enough to say you
know what no thank you I'm leaving I'm
getting a new job. One, two, I like the
wage data on job switches and Bank of
America came out with some data recently
for the month of January. Job changes
pay raises were less than half of the
2019 levels. This labor market is not as
hot as it was. You're not getting paid
as much for jumping ship.
if you're performing and that's
something that you are seeing. So you
might not get paid if you're jumping
ship. Also, why are you jumping ship? I
mean it seems like there's been such a
change in the nature of people keeping
jobs. Remember the whole quiet quitting?
I know
employers taking revenge on that
stuff as well. Stocks this morning
negative by a third of 1%. We'll catch
up with you tomorrow. We'll catch up
with Stuart Kaiser of City. The
Republican Congressman French Hill, Fed
Governor Chris Waller joining us. Look
out for that. Nadia Levelvel of UBS from
New York City this morning. Good
morning. This was Bloomberg
surveillance.