TITLE: China Makes Stability No. 1 Priority Amid Iran War | The China Show 3/6/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5541  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-06T05:34:24+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s_e0ZHg_wio
SHA256: 5fb86ba070cbf984c99586337715bc1c5d1c56cdd22a57311db92a2311963099

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [3%] crude is down 3% with the US considering
  [1%] about upside of about a a fifth of 1%.
  [2022] 2022. So it hearkens back to of course
  [2%] took it down to around the 2%. Again,
  [2010] number what I saw was in 2010 when
  [47%] consumption was only about 47% of our
  [57%] Today, it's something like a 57% of our
  [4%] fiscal policy 4% fiscal deficit rate and
  [2050] Bangkok. Uh, the IMF Asia in 2050
  [5%] between 4 and 1/2 to 5% instead of
  [2.3%] 2.3% in the opening moments. New York
  [70%] 60-70% probability of a rate hike as the
  [1.2%] At the moment, it's it's around 1.2%.
  [20%] one week. We're talking about nearly 20%
  [6%] So we are down some 6% when it comes to
  [3.7%] still up about 3.7%.
  [2035] for 2035 to achieve moderately developed
  [4.2%] at roughly about 4.2% growth. And then
  [7%] 7% on the week. Last time we had a week
  [2020] 2020. Remember what happened then?
  [23000] what, something like 23,000 flight
  [200000] of of 200,000 AI accelerators that
  [3252] here section 3252, which governs how uh
  [100%] point of view, what was a 100% subsidy
  [45%] 45% of the fuel which is actually a
  [2024] of 2024. All of these people are

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong. You're watching the
China show. I'm Yvonne Man with David
Ingles.
open of markets in greater China. Our
top stories today, stocks across the
region are tracking losses on Wall
Street as the Iran war escalates. Brent
crude is coming online. We're down about
2.3% in the opening moments. New York
crude is down 3% with the US considering
a range of options to address the spike
in prices. President Trump calls on
Iranian forces to lay down their arms
after almost a week of war, even as
Iran's missiles and drones target at
least five countries in the region. Also
coming up shortly, an exclusive with
PBOC advisor Huang Yiping, uh China's
economic goals and challenges as
lawmakers gather for the National
People's Congress.
And I'm Stephen Engle in Beijing, where
Chinese leaders are emphasizing
stability as the world faces rising
turbulence. We'll hear from top economic
officials, including the PBOC governor,
later today here in Beijing.
Welcome to the program. Lots to get into
and as far as markets go and the top
stories, this intersection between the
economic and political exercise, of
course, taking place in Beijing. We know
what the targets are. We'll have to find
out really uh what the economic team,
which holds a briefing later today, will
really fill in as far as the meat on the
bones conversations concerning. And of
course, that against the backdrop of
just broad risk aversion given what's
taking place currently and what will
perhaps
be the state of play over the weekend.
Oil prices on your screens coming up
very shortly. Uh we talked about this.
Was
uh to the upside going into the session
here Friday.
We had several headlines coming through
that might go in as far as explaining
why we are looking at declines in Brent
at the moment here. So, one is the US
president exploring options to bring oil
prices down to blunt the hit. Uh and
perhaps part of that would be this
license that the US is issuing to allow
some Russian oil sales to India as a way
to open up more crude back into the
broader broader market. Uh Shanghai
crude though, as you can see, is still
seeing some upside. We'll talk more
about the China implication in a moment
there. Uh dollar, gold the dollar
perhaps to blame why gold hasn't moved
to the upside as much as strength in the
US dollar and of course the
conversations around monetary policy. Uh
really when when when you look at the
ECB, for example, in pricing there now
at about 60
60-70% probability of a rate hike as the
next move this year. That's a moving
target there, of course, but that was
the move, of course, in bond bond
futures. Uh
terrible day on Thursday. Right, equity
markets are looking like this, right?
So, we're flat on S&amp;P and Europe. Uh
we're looking at still some sharp
declines. We're coming off lows at the
day though on the Kospi index, which
goes into the China session today, which
really saw massive selling across the
Stock Connect yesterday coming through
net flows out of Hong Kong. We are
poised to open lower looking at futures
right now. Sub 180 on the 10-year yield
and we are set for a fifth weekly drop
as it pertains to MSCI China.
of disappointment that came out of M-
You see that where you you didn't get
sort of that bolder urgency for for
stimulus here. That what we saw earlier
in those in numbers in terms of the
softening of the growth target were all
kind of expected leading up to this. So,
was this sort of a a nothing burger for
markets here and that maybe they were
looking a little bit more in terms of
the consumption side of things as well.
So, uh there is that, but I think, you
know, given all the external
uncertainties, as you mentioned, it was
really a message of of projecting that
sort of stability uh that they really
are are really kind of aiming for right
now in the economy. Yeah, given the
events that are taking place of course
alongside
what's taking place of course in Beijing
and I think one
very targeted measure that we understand
of course was taking place of course as
China's looking to
limit the number of you know
refined oil products making itself
into the offshore markets in a way that
a lot of countries are actually doing
the same thing. They're looking at their
oil inventories, they're looking at
their energy mix, they're looking at
plan B, plan C's in the event we get
further disruptions there and I think
we've seen that for many central banks.
I think Malaysia was yesterday at
inflation coming out of the Philippines
as well. So it's going to be an
interesting
moving target how central banks
will be looking at what will likely be a
temporary spike in headline inflation
and whether they and markets should look
through that. At least there is a bit of
relief in oil prices here today but you
talk about the the best weekly sort of
performance we've seen in oil since
2022. So it hearkens back to of course
the Russian invasion of Ukraine. So you
know the fact that the US is weighing
measures not just what you talked about
those allowing those licenses of Russian
crude to India but also talking about
maybe tapping into the strategic
petroleum reserves as well and really
kind of releasing those inventories. You
heard that from Japan where the you know
refiners are asking the same with with
their own government to release these
reserves and of course the conserving of
fuel that you're seeing from China as
well. So that certainly is
a big feature here on really how you
know Asia is dealing with this potential
spike in oil prices and really Asia most
exposed right? When you talk about this
whole sell America buy Asia sort of
theme that certainly has been rocked
given this week.
you know everyone was looking to the
gold as a haven play but the dollar
effectively sidelined sidelined those
moves right?
Back to the China story to really given
that backdrop that Ivana and know
uh outlined quite clearly for you guys
the Premier Li Chang alluded to these
rising challenges on the geopolitical
stage in his speech at the NPC. Have a
listen.
While recognizing our achievements, we
are also clear-eyed about the
difficulties and challenges we face.
The evolving external environment is
exerting a greater impact on China, and
geopolitical risks are rising. Global
economic momentum remains sluggish. Our
multilateralism and free trade are under
severe threat.
Joining us exclusively now from Beijing
is Huang Yiping, PBOC advisor and Dean
of the National School of Development at
Peking University. Uh
you know, Yiping, thank you so much for
joining us. Obviously, there's been a
lot on tap here. You heard from the
Premier himself about the need to really
kind of showcase this priority, which is
stability, in the face of all these
uncertainties here right now. Overall,
with the softer growth target and what
was lined out in this work report, your
overall reaction to what we heard from
the NPC so far?
Well, I think it's a quite a clear that
last year growth has been under uh
pressure, a downward pressure. Um so so
this is why the government is making a
lot of efforts to trying to boost the
growth through a number of things, um
including the macroeconomic policy,
fiscal and the monetary policy. But I
think we should recognize this is a
point of time that we probably should
not expect very aggressive uh big
stimulus package because um the growth
uh just structure adjustment has been an
ongoing process. The most important
thing um for the Chinese government and
uh for the policy makers is that uh
growth is stabilized, but uh um
alongside it um the the quality of
growth also improve. That's why they're
focusing a lot on the um the the new
productive force balance the growth um
……（中部抽样）……
and so on.
being more patient in terms of just
is a bit more than expected. That's why
efforts. So, um bottom line is we
sort of conflict though, right? That the
the Central Economic Work Conference in
can only be boosted through a gradual
remind you that consumption as a share
gradually.
the past couple of years. And the
repeated it at the 2% this year. So, I
the the the third the fourth quarter
this work report.
why inflation has been sluggish is
inflation in the coming year.
should be paying attention to?
continue to ease because the current
think that is quite certain. But, I I
just one last question.
said and we discussed it just a minute
the number two,
grateful for the time, of course, and we
to make a deal as the US and Israeli
traders out there here but what what do
attacking to to repel. But the the US
mixed messaging and I think a lot of
secretary who's down in Venezuela this
they didn't move away from Russian oil.
both a political risk as well as a
situation in the Middle East right now.
currency as well. 691
markets.
in the first 90 minutes of trade.
and my that might have to do with
of these markets in Asia-Pacific. When
world when it comes to their AI chip
Shanghai futures this morning. Large
are seeing some gains here today. There
It's Friday bear in mind but that right
some are saying you know there was a bit
saying here in terms of how to boost the
U-turn uh in terms of strategy there. Uh
Uh but you are seeing some of the
still up about 3.7%.
we're in, really. I mean, this was
bear market went into a week and then
director and chief officer of China
thing, the risk aversion due to the
rise suddenly out of the blue, it's not
we can see to look at the valuation. For
attractiveness.
to the AI development, and then why not
investors? Well, yes, there are a few
Money will naturally chase those
market compared to H share market, they
country
the so-called national strategy major
gains.
To find the sectors where still have the
Kevin, thank you so much. Kevin Liu
this Friday. Many more ahead. This is
Vortexa. Fantastic set of numbers.
Vortexa data recorded only one tanker
it then transited through, spent a
this time. This was around I would say
uh to uh to to to players in that part
obviously, on what this means. I mean,
dangerous choke point right now, Ivon.
links to a Japanese owner. So, that's
normal day it's worth reporting those
when it actually took place and whether
worst nightmare right now, right? Like
really edgy, right? Like the Japanese
that's why some of the major exporters
compared to Japan. If you look at Korea,
you of course to all prices, my bread
But at the same time
they're telling some of the refiners to
it's not immune to global supply shocks.
more uncertain. In a time like now,
Mhm.
missed the fact that we are in earnings
gains maybe following some steps that
The DRC's, the PBOC's, the Ministry of
session. It is Friday, right? We're
Continues to to to you know, we're
getting from the US administration about
badly
Anyway, that's just to say
Um anyway, um a lot of that also has to
Yeah. Um
and Iran steps up of course with those
possibility and we know that we can
whether there could be some sort of land
real muscular postures from both sides.
House Republicans early next week as
you know we've seen as he's appeared
What are we hearing and I want to ask
mean we have I think it was the the 12th
closure, right? If stuff is shut down
travel, not just oil prices, but kind of
also saw, uh, you know, just a this
the posture we've really seen from Trump
the IDF says it has begun, to Laura's
your conversations there?
chief Kristalina Georgieva. That and
supported, but it needs to be done
mentioned, right, it it is that need to
right? Uh doesn't take months, doesn't
in China but he's also quite aware of
some ways at record levels, right? Um
for in the near future even though we
towards the end right? He said he
example, a lot of that of course comes
hit hard, right? Asia, Philippines, uh
Because I imagine it won't be a tail I
and who they export to, right?
prices have come down and come off a bit
President Biden in May of last year. So,
you know, really taking quite a formal
How are they going to enforce this? How
or uh sources, but but uh
some sort of of export license. But if
still not finalized. Details could
we're also getting some news about
their technology not being applied to
official, essentially, this is what had
the US or governs the US armed forces,
interesting in this is that Anthropic's
there's an obvious replacement.
update here. We're hearing well, two
connected, but whether or not those were
on the other side of it.
conference or not press conference, it
exactly the same as last year. And
producers even though it's by size a
also the uncertainty leading up into
a preview. What can we glean from what's
level and the provincial level and the
byproducts of their imported crude and
in Beijing for us.
that you know Korea still
should we be over the past few of energy
forget it's jobs day in the US. We
markets. So, that certainly is one thing
coming through as well. Two-year break
they even discussing, do we need to kind
at the IMF annual meetings in Bangkok
impact given that we're into the seventh
impact to the market has been a lot
different than we were maybe 5, 10 years
And we've been doing a lot of subsidy
a robust domestic economy. And as we
And from our energy mix in the country
you would have in the past. So, growth
be. So, that hit that tailwind has
is that this is a very resilient
of the ringgit still remains because we
think the ringgits movements not only
concerned? I mean it could be a case
converted? Is it fueling the economy and
Again, I think it's it's only fair to
subsidized fuel that's in the market
worked, yeah, along the way. Well, in
Minister, this is just one of our
positive way.
12 months. Then everybody really has to
about building those buffers and it does
in Thailand for us. More coming up there
China's economic slowdown is not a
China has become a lot more advanced and
……（接近结尾）……
uh of this year. That's more than double
the number that we had in the beginning
of 2024. All of these people are
flocking to the have been flocking to
the UAE for low taxes, extremely uh high
quality of life. You can travel pretty
much anywhere from there. But I think
that right now everyone is questioning
if this is sustainable, if the UAE can
actually stay there and survive this
conflict that nobody knows for how long
it may last. When you talk to people on
the ground or those that were even
considering going there, everyone says
that the basically the the base is the
same. Nothing changed in terms of how uh
important it is to be there, but how are
you going to be uh doing that physically
or even for how long can you withstand
uh the missiles being intercepted by the
by the defense system? It's very
stressful and and people are stressed. I
think that's fair to say right now. I
mean, certainly China has We've seen a
lot of exchange between China and the
Middle East as well. How do you see
these going to efforts being done by by
cities like Dubai, by cities like Abu
Dhabi in attracting a lot of capital as
well as talent? That it's been clear,
Yvonne, and it's funny because we've
been talking over the past few years
with a lot of people from Hong Kong that
decided to to move to the Gulf because
the opportunities were there, the money
was there. Uh Hong Kong is known for
being low tax environment. Then you go
to a zero tax environment on the
personal level. So it's very, very, very
attractive, especially when this place
is becoming a lot more of the global
conversation when it comes to finance. I
think Abu Dhabi, for example, you have
some of the major
uh global funds that were moving there.
The sovereign wealth funds themselves
have over 2 trillion US dollars in
capital to deploy everywhere. We're not
just talking about the Gulf. So there
are jobs, there are interesting
opportunities. Traders that never
thought about uh being that part of the
globe. Uh hedge fund managers were
there, let's say, since the the end of
COVID. At the same time, if this is
going to last, if people will keep doing
that um that move, I think right now
it's very very hard to say.
the
the the head of the HKX before Bonnie
Chan
a Guzin, right? And I think some of the
interviews we did with him, it always
started off with how many times have you
been to Middle East? And then he would
go, "I've been there five times." And
obviously with Bonnie and other Hong
Kong leaders. And I wondered the Hong
Kong transmission effect and that link.
Can we should we expect a fallout or am
I overthinking?
had like, for example, over the past 2
years, we had two uh conferences hosted
here in Hong Kong between the HKX and
the Saudi exchange, which also a major
player in that region. They've signed
MOUs with ADX, uh which is the one in
Abu Dhabi, the same thing in Dubai.
There is a clear that some ETFs were
launched both ways to trying to make
sure that this inflow and this I think
more important than anything is there's
been a very very strong conversation
happening between China, between Hong
Kong, and between the Gulf over the past
uh 3 to 4 years. I think that it did The
importance between both parts doesn't
diminish, but at the same time Hong Kong
is looking at how maybe some of the
family offices that are based there,
they could be rethinking their strategy
and come back here or even not deploy as
much or build as big of a strategy there
as they were uh thinking before. our job
right now is to know how this this is
going to happen because it's still very
unclear. Filipe, great stuff. Thank you,
Filipe Botelho, who covers well for us.
And of course, uh feel free to check out
more on that big take here today. This
week's also Hong Kong edition newsletter
looks at the war's impact on lives of
people who moved from Hong Kong to the
Gulf as well. You can read that and
subscribe by scanning the QR code on
your screen there. You're watching The
China Show.
up the show, let's take a glance at cash
markets across the region, some of them
at least. There's a big briefing, of
course. Stay tuned for that in the
afternoon out of Beijing. That's it from
us here on the China Show. We will see
you all on Monday.