2026-05-08_作者对谈：什么是西方？（Georgios Varouxakis）_69fd365fe1eb34a939f2066a_原文
2026年07月02日 15:44
发言人   00:00
大家好，欢迎来到独树不成林。这是一期英文采访，是我和普林斯顿大学出版社一起合作的政治哲学思想录系列第二集。和我对谈的是思想史学者georgio vuk sarkis教授。他目前是伦敦大学玛丽女王学院政治思想史教授，同时也是政治思想史研究中心的联合主任。他长期从事政治思想史和概念史的研究，之前出版过多部有关john store mill密尔的著作。这次我们围绕他2025年出版的新书the west，the history of an idea、西方一部观念史展开了一次深入对谈。
发言人   00:40
这部书的核心问题是，我们今天习以为常的西方到底是什么意思？Varicks在书中指出，西方并不是一个自古以来就存在的文明共同体，而是一个在19世纪早期特定政治语境中逐渐形成的概念。换句话说，西方是被发明出来的一种用来划分世界组织联盟、界定敌友的政治语言。在访谈中，我们从19世纪欧洲如何在俄罗斯崛起的压力下开始发明西方这个概念谈起，讨论了为什么像德国这种在文化上如此处在西方核心的国家，反而在相当长的一段时间里并不被视为西方的一部分？语言到底是在描述现实还是在创造现实？西方这个概念是否本身就塑造了我们今天划分世界的方式？Georgeous value suckers的研究，同时挑战和反驳了大众层面和学术层面对于西方理所当然的主流理解。
发言人   01:35
在大众层面，今天我们说西方的时候，通常把它想象成是美国人宣称自己要捍卫的那个东西。在学术象牙塔的层面，西方这个概念通常是和萨伊德的东方主义紧密绑定。我在采访中问他为何认为这两种就大众层面和学术层面对于西方的理解在思想史上来说就是不准确的？我也问他，如果有人批评你说你这样子做是在给所谓的西方敌对势力递刀子，你会如何回应？在一些非西方语境中，经常会有人被攻击说他是和西方境外势力站在一起，如果这个所谓的西方本身就是自相矛盾的，这种攻击又有什么意义？我们也讨论了从俄罗斯到明治维新之后的日本，到土耳其，到希腊之类，很难被归为西方，但是又确实在他们各自的现代化路径中试图西化过的国家，对于这些西方边缘的国家来说，西方又意味着什么？
发言人   02:32
普林斯顿大学出版社的编辑和B站会给本期访谈加上中文字幕上传到哔哩哔哩。这个大概可能要等一个月左右的时间，因为我们在对话中确实说了很多术语和专有名词，需要麻烦再编辑。你加字幕的时候核实上传视频版本。之后我也会更新本期播客节目的简介。
发言人   02:52
在这里我给大家预告一下，从下周开始我要给自己放暑假了。因为我会忙着举办阿伦特人的近况和心智生活两个新译本的新书活动。下个星期我会来北京参加理想国读者节，未来三个月不要来催我更新播客。等到暑假结束之后，我会和普林顿大学出版社以及哈佛大学出版社继续推出更多的新书作者访谈，敬请期待。
发言人   03:18
接下来让我们进入这段对话。大家好，欢迎来到独树不成林。I am extremely honored today to have Georgeous vacates here to talk to me about his new book, the west history of an idea.
发言人   03:34
A Georgeous is professor in history of political thought at queen mary, university of london, and he also is the co director of the center for the study of the history of political thought. He has written multiple books on john Stuart mill. Um it's worth mentioning that he teaches in london, but he is greek. So, you know, in any dominant narrative of the west, at least from where I am in the united states, IT is often traced back to ancient greece. So I look forward to discussing how you chAllenge IT and you disagree with IT but you have also chAllenged so many things about the west in your book um I guess i'll just start by briefly saying that um there is a popular conception of the west and an academic conception of the west that you uh both of with your chAllenge e in your book in china and in amErica um when we talk about the west, most people think that they know what they're talking about uh I am a political theorist trained in the american academy you know western sive, hey hah hoo, western ships got to go has been a change on campus since the sixties and now recently with the election of Donald trump.
发言人   04:52
There's also a revival of the west in a lot of the university, uh on a lot of the university campuses uh there are academics and politicians and state legislators actively trying to revive whatever the west is um in in the civic centres of american universities uh and also for these people that are that are trying to do that, they see china as quintin title non western like I have friends who have podcasts on the western save and when they are asked what is non west they say china china seems to be the only non western a place in this narrative and you and you chAllenge all of that in your book and I look forward to really getting into IT and um and also of course there there is the academic conception of the west that comes out of the theory of Edwards I eat so like i've said in my intro, your book by tracing really the history of the west as a concept, as an idea you the bunk um almost all of the above popular and academic narratives so I guess i'll just start by asking you the question, how did you form the idea of the book? I mean it's it's so amazing and IT covers so much. Thank you.
发言人   06:05
Well, one thing brings another, no doubt. And serendipity had a lot to do with IT. But as I had started, ed, ed, a gust count and the british contest, the followers of counter positivist, as part of my study of the context of nineteen thirty political though and not least his relationship with the Jones to admit that as you said I had worked a lot on um I noticed at a very strong emphasis on the west definition of the thweet book's articles the western republic was always the on top of every book uh a orange city or letter that consent as of the as of 848 until he died and then his followers would follow him on the same truck so when do you read some books and articles and literature on the history of the of the west as a self description by academics？And they were saying correctly, the west is a completely misunderstood topic, because people plan.
发言人   07:10
Acronis ally called the west everything we consider as part of the west stories, history. But the people in the past, who now are seen as the west called themselves different names much of that time. That's correct. So then these people go on to say, the west actually was invented in the very end of the nineteen century in order to justify imperiali ism, british imperialism. M high imperiali ism, more generally.
发言人   07:38
That's where I thought, oh, oh, wait a minute, that's not surely that's not true, especially because they name a particular thinking, Benjamin kid as a social Darwin's in the eighteen nineties and dairy twenty century, with a number of books on western civilization and so on. And I thought, wait a minute. But kid, kid was obsessed with count.
发言人   07:59
He had had everything count had written, asked her everybody else, of course. So I realized the most crucial missing link in in that story was, no doubt, count. Once I started researching that and writing the book, I realized that there was, of course, there is no personal genesis count was not alone. There were other people in france who, as of the early decades of the nineteen century, especially after the apolonia words, started using oxy down the west and oxidation, oxidation, uh, western much, much more than before. And IT was deliberate.
发言人   08:37
II noticed that they were worried about russia and its importance in europe and so one of my first arguments uh in the book is that the west was not invented against asia or in contra distinction to um islam or anything else as people would assume, but rather IT was needed against in order to differentiate western and central europe from russia so since you mention that you're said my story and history are at close purposes. III don't deal with him much because my argument is no matter whether he was right, wrong or to what extent he was right, that the european and or western, as he calls them, created an idea of themselves and the identity by otherly, by exotic ising, this, whatever they meant by this, he's in general, right about that. Although many people have chAllenged some details of his scholarship, that's not my job and not a literary history in anyway he's right about that but my where I come in is to say yes but they were very happy to continue exotic sizing others ing this and calling themselves for centuries Christian dom or europe as of the end of the eighteen seventeen century, beginning of the eighteen th.
发言人   10:01
Why do they start needing another term, the west in the nineteen. And there the answer is because they needed some. People in france and germany started feeling the need to differentiate themselves from others who were also european and also Christian. The russians, wow. Yeah, that's great.
发言人   10:21
I think one of the most interesting h in terms of scholarly contributions that you correct in the beginning part of your book is that the concept of the west emerges in the early nineteen sixth century and not in the late nineteen century, as many scholars have claimed but also um for the popular reader what what is most you know the greatest insight is maybe how important russia has been in the in the entire narrative of the west IT is really um maybe like what Edward's that says the west is the other income cept that is meant to distinguish yourself from whatever is not you um and whatever is not you is bad but we usually you know I learned the reader is going to think the thing that's being others is asia or islam and and you put russia at the center of the table and really and also what when I was reading your book um I was intrigued by how russia in a way has uh internalized that otherly um a chinese reader is gonna be very keen to learn IMII think most of the chinese readers that I know they know about the the the the slave of file debate and the west westernized debate um in russia in the century and the the a huge insight that I received from your book was how even that debate has internalized sort of how the whatever is non russia and the non russian europeans call themselves the west and then the pro westerners in russia just took that a understanding to be whatever they wanted imitate and um I need the thing. Interesting shift that has come up with the idea of the west that you bring up is before the west really came up, uh, the distinction in europe was between the southern and the northern for the longest period of time. The southern were the civilized people the greeks, the italian ans were civilized, and then the germans were uncivilized.
发言人   12:28
We kind of see, you know, motor had to go down to the self to prove himself as a musical genius um but really when the concept of the west was invented or IT started to appear more in writings um the distinction became the west civilized versus the east non civilized yeah yeah yeah very much so and is fascinating madama the style as I showing the book in her ten years of exile um in the second decade of the nineteen century begins to talk of russia and he says it's seen as a northern country but it's not in northern country its its eastern and SHE starts using this but in her case IT was not in order to diminished SHE was admit the loves and based SHE was following heard that the german a think your philosophers who had a positive view of the loves and who believed in the in the kind of diversity and equality of cultures and the value of all cultures and diversity as a as a terribly important thing so in her case IT was not yet um axiological or Normal tive but in the twenty, eighteen, twenty some people started using russia as seeing russia's eastern and proposing a western federation to defend western europe and central europe from russia because they were very worried about russia. The thing is, and i'm grateful that you mention this, that was the first surprise. The second surprise is that this went on until until today, more or less so in the long day of my that I study.
发言人   14:09
Russia is always seen us outside the west, with only exception being a few years during the second world war, when IT has to join the western democracies because header invaded and IT becomes extremely important to Victory losses, of course, millions of people. So the prestige of the soviet union is was so enormous that between the uh you know, one and forty two, that is so that is, is in a and nineteen ninety seven that the cold war begins. People were talking of russia's saving western civilization.
发言人   14:42
And as part of western civilization, routinely, especially from forty five to forty forty, with the cold war, IT again becomes the enemy and the other. So there is only that little exception. But the the thing i'd like to stress is I couldn't call this rush phobia as many people do IT was literally fear of russia, anxiety of russia.
发言人   15:03
So obviously there might be some people for who I was more, but the general um feeling I have through through my sources is a genuine fear. But this is an enormous monolithic country. IT has one government IT IT has one army.
发言人   15:19
And we are divided and we will fall, pray they will conquer each of us little by little. That was an anxiety and a very small number of people had in the eighth century, including jang ja, who saw, but in the nineteen century after the napoleonic wars, IT becomes very, very generalized. Because let's remind our listeners briefly what happened in the early eighteen century.
发言人   15:42
Peter the great makes russia in enormously powerful, modernized country, and he imposes IT as well, and he forces his people to shave and behave as if they're western. He builds a capital in the politics in in europe, the same Peters probe at enormous cost to the people who built IT who died in their thousands. So he had money.
发言人   16:04
He brought, uh, great architects from europe. Then he and his successors, like Cathy the great, bring a did the whole, you know, did they all went to russia and spend time with caffeine? The great coin, the grade, was a friend of vote.
发言人   16:17
We all these things. So russia imposes itself not only as a political european power, but culturally as part of europe. In the at level the russian elites spoke rush, uh, french probably Better than russian.
发言人   16:30
They become a major part of uh, european culture as of eighteen century. But suddenly with the congress of in nine, in eighteen fifteen, after the end of an apolonia wars, russia is not just part of europe. IT becomes the the center of europe.
发言人   16:46
Alexander the first, the russian emperors are, dominates the congress of viana, and then he creates the holy alliance. So more and more people in france and germany start worrying, wait them and wait them in IT. They're not just part of europe now.
发言人   17:03
They dominate, eugh. That's why they start needing a new identity and they start talking of themselves as the west. And this becomes completely explicit with count and his followers later in the eighteen forty who say explicit europe is confusing because IT infused russia. That's why we need to call IT oxyde if a century later in the nineteen eighteen, when a the first volume of uh oswald spengler famous book, the decline of the west, uh, would winter gangs up and land.
发言人   17:35
This comes out there is a long quotation, sorry, a long food note in the introduction where he says the word europe has to be struck out of history and out of politics and history is this word europe that has confused people and make them think that russia is part of us. Russia is not part of us. That's why we are oxide.
发言人   17:54
We are the west. We are not the europe. So it's a long story, as you said. And the other most of the time or the most significant other, that creates this concept and gives me a reason for being in russia.
发言人   18:07
Otherwise the europeans, of course, so asia or the orient or uh other cultures are different, but they didn't feel the need to call themselves the west and create a new identity. They already had Christian or europe as they are overarching identity. Yeah I have two um questions uh to follow up.
发言人   18:29
The first one is um you mention a period before the congress of viana uh the the enlightenment that we broadly call IT. I have I have a close friend of mine is writing a book on how the idea of china is transformed um by european thinkers and what I learned from him was that uh you see you see a period of praising china without understanding IT. You know the jesus went to china uh to preach questioning and then they brought back uh travel books, notes about china.
发言人   19:03
And then really in the time of voter deter, you see these indignant philosophers praising enlightened despair. Sm uh of the of the chinese Mandarin and vote no has written plays to disappearing the chinese Mandarin um obviously that's a pacification of what real china is. But but china remain positive during the enlightenment, and then IT became super negative.
发言人   19:26
Comes mountains school and and then especially IT comes hao, china becomes cynane ous with despatie. M and also in talk film, you know, so you really see china going from enlightened to despair. Sm, in the period of a century. Uh, and I wonder this comes before, uh, your book. It's the period a little bit before your book started.
发言人   19:51
So I want to ask you, just out of january curiosity, like during the eighteen century, during the enlightenment, was russia depicted kind of like how china was depicted as the model against whatever that they want to criticize in france and especially the enlightenment philosophers? And also, I guess the second part of my question is more scholarly. Um a ghost com is a central figure in your in your book and he is a he is a french philosophy um I guess the question is seems to me that there he introduced a new a valence into your story of the west because you know, before that I was like a fear of russia.
发言人   20:36
Russia is a threat and we don't want russia is a threaten us. And then August comp comes and he brings in a um NT imperialist Normative um universal isc concept of the western his book and and that I mean those two stories seem to me um there's a shift there in terms of where the where the idea of the west becomes after our goods can so yeah, those are my two questions. Very good questions, very important questions.
发言人   21:07
So let me start with the first. Yes, absolutely. China was praised. China was idealized while there was notoriously uh praising china in Normative terms. And he was using china and beginning his histories of universal histories with china in order to expose and criticize the parole ism of Christian narratives of universal history, like both U. S. Because he wanted to hit the the Christians and create a more, you know a more uh, secular history and he always reminded people that the most ancient civilization is china in the process probably he did know enough, but he he he needed to praise china clearly. Um like like other narratives, as you say, russia in the eighth century, no, russia had a positive imagine incentive most of the time and there are very few options like also as I said in a the social contract at seventeen sixty two, he says nobody notices IT because there is so much to notice in that book that people don't notice this but he says explicit that we will all be devoted by the russians. We will be conquered by them and they would be conquered by the starters, their neighbors.
发言人   22:20
And before we saw um uh Oliver gold Smith and irish novelist, extremely interesting novel list and philosophical thinker in many ways in a in a novel called citizen of the world where he pretends to be a chinese visitor to europe a device of course that has been used by monos cape with the personal letters so he pretends to be a chinese man writing letters about europe and in the process of course he finds a way to criticize uh european societies and their hipolito is and their problems and in that novel he explicated says the greatest danger of the people's of western europe is russia and they they make alliances with russia. They use russia against each other, and they don't understand the greatest danger is russia. Russia wants to conquer them.
发言人   23:09
That has always been its plan. So it's as early as that. Eighteen, six thousand, seventeen, sixty, sixty one. But he says this, but he was in in the minority, most people. So russia positively then.
发言人   23:22
And that changes after, as I said, changes in the ninety thousand when russia becomes uh too dangerous in the eyes of many people and then IT becomes very unpopular after it's, uh well, Alexander the first becomes people get worried about the example first because he was very charming. He was very popular. He had many friends in germany.
发言人   23:43
He had, he was flirting with protestant, spiritual and theocratic this. And soon when he dies and nicolas the fair succeeds him. Then russia becomes unpopular for another reason, which is its very powerful, but also very despotic. now. So european liberals and radicals are worry about russia because of its despotism and then the oppression of the posh um rebellion research um in the beginning of eighteen thirties leads to another wave of unpopularity for russia because of how we abolish the autonomy of.
发言人   24:19
Poland, the part of poland that belong to russia and crucially, the polis refugees who go to paris, london and german states keep up this um uh you know this lobbing against russia because I had of course destroy their country or what was left of IT in terms of its um autonomy. Now these people were not just migrants or refugees, they were polish air crowds police. The polish aristocracy were extremely well connected people all over europe, so their voice was important.
发言人   24:52
I have many examples of them talking to para stone um count alex um adam shut. The risky, for example, was a major in the past. He was the foreign secretary, the foreign minister of of the ZARA of ZARA xander when he was Younger.
发言人   25:07
So these people were not any refugees. They were very well connected european and refugees from poland. So that made also for increase in popularity for russia.
发言人   25:17
Now i'll go to your second question, which is absolutely crucial. Your absolutely, I can think of a positive view of russia, but IT was in the sense he thought russia was backward. IT was not a yet ready to join the west as he defined, but he didn't have any osoph's a.
发言人   25:33
He didn't have any desire to exclude the russians in any permanent way. His plan was univerSally tic, as you very correctly say. And IT was meant to include everybody.
发言人   25:43
Eventually, he just told western europe what he called the west, western europe and its offshoots. It's settle colonies in the, in both americans, not just north, but also south america, lain america, plus australia and new zealand. These peoples had grown together.
发言人   26:00
Ince, the time of charlemane. He saw IT in the eight, nine century. They had formed so many historical and cultural links, and they were so advanced, technologically, politically, and shown that now they were ready to accept his proposal for a completely organization of society if and when they accepted IT.
发言人   26:19
And they reorganize themselves in the way he proposed to, which will go in a minute. And please remind me if I forget, because as you say, it's very important and is a major surprise, uh, then I would be in a position to admit everybody else, little by little. So he the he had about his plans as to who would join first, who would join next, but invent the western republic.
发言人   26:41
Ican, this age, which would have its capital in paris, would move to constantly people. This, what is now is stable, the city between europe and asia. And that would symbolists unite the whole world.
发言人   26:53
And IT would be the capital of the of the human republic, the republic of humanity. So first surprise, yes, as you say correctly, instead of the west as an idea being invented to justify paralink m, his west was meant to abolishing period ism immediately. He thought, imperialism, conquest, uh, military force where artificial and acronis tic things in the positive future he was envisaging.
发言人   27:17
They should be a pools shed and we should all be in a much more interested in industry. So, uh, advancing humanity, well being through industry. He was after all, the sensitive ion. He was the secretary of sensitive on for seven years, although he couldn't call himself sensitive ion because they clashed, but in terms of his desire for industrial growth and industrial development and exploitation of the of nature by humans, as opposed to humans exploitation each other, he was in the same mold as they are the the you top and socialist and and see on so um meanwhile, and this is crucial counts, the other for the west, the danger for the west according to count was itself is um the selfishness, the um individualism of people there are they are completely neglect of the past and their ancestors.
发言人   28:17
They are completely neglect of past and future continuity so he called all that allama a diocese tal the western disease so he thought because of the revolutionary uh philosophy of the enlightenment and then the french revolution, all these things were good in his opinion. They had to happen because the same regime had to go. The fuda and share regime had run its course and had to go.
发言人   28:41
But now in the nineteen century, the europeans had not developed a new uh, disposition, a new uh, social organization. They were still talking about rights, liberty, individualism, without thinking of responsibility, lies, duties and society more generally. And you thought, this is, got a topic you cannot go on like this.
发言人   29:03
IT has done its work now. We need a very organization. So he coined the term out term, for example, we ve her or toy living for others he he thought the greatest danger, selfishness and individualism.
发言人   29:17
So he was um trying to create a new moral cell standing for the most advanced part of the world that he called the west and to and in that effort he created the religion of humanity. He thought he didn't believe in god. He thought we don't need god, the theological god, the god with the beard of the old testament.
发言人   29:39
People will not believe in that code as they develop science and can explain the world in different ways. But we don't need to believe in a in a supernatural al. God, god outside nature, what we can replace that code with humanity as the object of a ideation.
发言人   29:58
So he wanted to to to to. He wanted to promote the idea that you should live for others. You should do good for humanity.
发言人   30:06
You should respect your ancestors and the bending tors of humanity in the past, and do your best for the future of humanity and your consolation for death instead of eternal life in paradise, as IT was for the Abrahama religions and so on. In his in his mind, was how I would be remembred. The family remembered as a benefactor of humanity, as somebody who did good to humanity.
发言人   30:30
That is a consultations for my, for my death. So he tried to expand this feeling of working for humanity and is good. And he created AA completely new calendar where the manufactures of humanity would be honor.
发言人   30:44
Some would get a whole month, some would get a week, some would get a day. And interestingly, these people, who would be the equivalent of sense in other religions, these people were not just europeans or White or, uh, western. He included, confusions included，buddie included, also mohamed included, people from all over the world.
发言人   31:06
So already in his religion, that was an attempt at university. I don't want to take this so far. IT was, of course, geocentric.
发言人   31:13
Of course, he thought in unna terms that progress has to go one way. There is one progress. Europe is the most advanced.
发言人   31:21
The rest will inevitably want to join IT. Let's help them to join IT. That is eurocentric. That is nineteen century way of thinking. 呃，uh, like you mention hegg, uh, carl Marks thought the same way of course one way one way to progress that is eurosceptic obviously it's a ninety thousand thing but in terms of his genuine desire to abolish empire and to include everybody, he was universalistic indeed and very uh rare for the eighteen century for the european and nineteen century.
发言人   31:52
Yeah I guess um you know unfortunately the narratives that you put out in this book, they're so contradictory that maybe IT don't make IT a little harder to spread then Edwards sieves or entity sm which a very simple unified narrative because you show so convincing that there is duality hiding in the very beginning um of the west and and really you know, since i'm grounded in a civilization that is non western and and if you look at really the history of any non western civilization, you can greece, modern greece as part of that but but whether you're looking at nineteen century, russian debates between the western ized and the slab files，or you look at the the japanese major restoration of my friend I was told that the um advisers to the major emperor red france is bacon and wanted to, you know, bacon nice of bring france is bacon to the japanese empire or you look at like early twenty century chinese may force uh movement people they brought in mr. Democracy, ms. Liberty and mr.
发言人   33:04
Science into into ancient china so they you know they all had a concept of the west that um the the the west was seen as not only representing progress in science but also IT was individualism and and that that idea of the west was then almost everywhere attacked by nationalists as um you know selfish and non automatic but but you show from the beginning uh copt was also criticized ing that part of of modernity he was also coming up with the cure against individualism by coin terms like uh altruism m uh so so that duality was already embedded in the in the idea of the west from the beginning and and then people just take you know kind of half of that and try to import IT into a non western and and and another thing that I want to add is that um even income you show yes, IT was your arsenal c but he wanted to move the capital to constantly no if if all works out well um and I remember when I uh I when I produced an episode introducing your book a managin um one of my publishers from the past tex at me and he was you know he was like he was interested in the history of turkey and he was like. You know turkey seems to me and I told him that greece and russia are both sort of countries on the periods of the west um that you know he wanted me to ask you um if I have have the chance turkey seems to be another one of those countries where which we you know sometimes you think of IT as the west and then sometimes it's not and obviously the history of turkish modernization is a key to japan, to china, to russia. The ones that that I have brought up come out attire wanted to western ized turkey and IT was never fully western.
发言人   34:59
Nice you see all these periods ery countries or non western countries have all had a similar trajectory of history that is a moderna ization is sometimes equated to western ization and and that process is never complete. Um yeah and and i'm sure and I told him, you know you as greek also呃greece the history of greece is also part of that story even though I don't really you know，being in amErica and seeing so many americans tries to include ancient greece as the as the beginning of the narrative as you as you start the book with from plano tonio, I think you are also quite well aware of how ancient greece is appropriated into the narrative of the west today. Well, tell you, your friend, that not only my greek but when I was another graduate in northern, I learned turkish for four years because I was, I was planning to do AP.
发言人   35:56
H. D. In automated history. So I didn't do that, did apparent on john to at million france. But, uh, I kept an interesting turkish history, of course so one of the you're right um can I like to work in his reforms where of course an attempt at quick force the westerners ization they were inspired by count one of the leading a Young turks was uh uh reza who was who lived in paris. If you go to any volume of the hov oxy dtd, the western review, the the magazine of the contest in the nineteen century, almost every issue, he had an article. He was a major leading a member of the positivist circles of paris when the Young turk revolution happened in nineteen or eight, he went to turkey and became the president of the national assembly.
发言人   36:50
So he was a major politician in turkey when when the turks under kamala atter defeated the greeks after the first world war and kicked them out of asia, uh greece sent its former prime minister van zelus to negotiate with the turks turkish of meza IT shows you how senior he was um another major um intellectual of the turkish modernizing nationalist movement which was called to to look was um the aga o who is quoted in the epigraph of my introductory chapter um he wrote endlessly on the need to join western civilization and he tried to explain we can keep our religion as islam. Our culture will be national cultural turkish civilization is a supermarket thing and you can change civilization we can leave the eastern civilization of the automated enjoy in western civilization as a turkish ation. So that was a modernizing progress project, similar to the earlier one, by focus on your kitchen japan, that you are a to no doubt.
发言人   37:58
And you know, chinese thinkers like Young ho, initially before the first world war and so on, absolutely all that is very true. So my book shows that the west has made many different things that ended. If you ask if, if, if someone, there's, so what if we are not historians obsessed with the past and its details, why should we care about this? The answers? Because, as you mention, particular people, particular politician groups, particular politicians, use these terms and pretend that they mean one thing.
发言人   38:35
And they say, in the name of this, you have to follow in the name of this. We have to save western civilization. We have to save america, save europe. My book shows that these are very uh complex um legacies uh traditions where you can find the resources for exactly the opposite argument, of course.
发言人   38:54
So in the current conception you have american um the american government of vice president uh once and so on saying that they defend western civilization ation which is in danger by the european union and the europeans and of course the european saying you are the greatest danger to western civilization because you are trying to create IT with witness and Christianity and europe uh western civilization and western societies have evolved and what you are talking about is a is a past long, long ago p phase in the history of the west and now the west is a much more complex, a much more open minded, much more diverse, much more tolerant place and therefore uh, there is AAHHA, A battle for the redefinition of the term. So my book comes to offer resources for that battle. And and he says, don't abandon the meaning of the term to the arrivals.
发言人   39:55
Because if you abandon them, the definition of the terms to them, you have already lost the debate. I make that argument very clearly in the conclusion, and I have many american commentators who have this debate among themselves. Yeah, i'll just add one thing to to your narrative.
发言人   40:13
Know in china, in the chinese debate, if you say anything that against, say, a national alist narrative, sometimes you'll get accused of being sponsored by western forces. I get a sometimes, I mean, i'm sure every chinese intellectuals have been accused of being sponsored by western forces if you, if you tell an opinion that is a non pro nationalist. So I mean, you really show just throughout history, starting in the eighteen century, how you know ideas and terms can be captured for political purposes.
发言人   40:52
So I guess the simple st answer to why shall we care is that because we live in a political world and um words are politicized. Um yes yes and thank you for saying that because in the conclusion, although I insist throughout the book that term is important and will go on being used exactly because it's very attractive and different size will want to use IT for their own purposes. So it's not going to disappear.
发言人   41:18
It's not going to go away. So therefore, it's Better to define IT through a historical geneology, as I do, and show what IT has meant. And that, by definition, means that IT can be redefined in the future either by recency old layers of meaning or creating new layers as historical evolution develops.
发言人   41:37
History and politics are messy affairs. They are not logic, they are not mathematics. They are not straight forward. They, they are further surprises.
发言人   41:45
But you are reminding me, one of my arguments in the conclusion is I am against the use of terms like western values because if people in the west say to chinese people, or to indian people, or to, uh, african people, or to whoever and democracy or liberal democracy, or a constitutionally ism, or toleration h freedom of speech, or toleration of sexual enters, or toleration of different religions, or equality, or socialism, or social democracy, whatever we each of us may think is a good thing. right? Justice, political justice, very talk racy.
发言人   42:24
If you say these are western values, the implication immediately, the ancestors of the westerns who say that one, they were right, they won in the bottle of history, and the rest of the world has to imitate them. H, because they are Better. That's a historically problematic, because these things are very complex, and everybody borrows from everybody who which ideas one? Where is an accident of history, not a result of some boy's superiority in genes or in intelligence? I hope i'm clear about that.
发言人   42:59
But besides, but it's also politically and strategically, a unknown goal is a mistake. Because if IA liberal, and I want a people in outside the west to adopt western liberal constitutional institutions or values, if I tell them they are western, it's as if i'm telling them they are foreign and you have to import. That, of course, immediately helps the governments in various countries to say, you see, these are foreign ideas.
发言人   43:32
These are imposed on us by new imperials. That's why I say in the book, don't call them liberal h sorry, don't call them western values, call them by universal names. Call them liberal, egalitarian, an utility and whatever you like, call them by those names. As opp posed to western, nobody has ownership of these ideas.
发言人   43:53
That's why I also try to defendin greek classics in the conclusion of my books, because there is now a tendency in the investor, in american britain, among classes, to try to a tone for the collusion of classes system, the nineteen century, with virus imperials projects. And in the process, they they spend so much time apologizing for the classics, that they forget that the classics are extremely valuable text. Whatever happened to them through the uses and abuses by various people, the classics belong to the world.
发言人   44:29
They don't belong to the west. They don't belong to east. They don't belong to the greeks. They don't belong to the europeans. The classics belong to the world.
发言人   44:36
We all have the right and the, we need to read them, reinterpret and make the most out of them. And of course, that includes chinese classic, indian classics, greek classics, roman classic, whatever they are. So this identification with past traditions and the ownership labels can be both problematic historically, also politically, very, very counterproductive.
发言人   45:02
So i'm against them. I think um ideas and institutions should be discussed whether they are Better or not in terms of their value, not in terms of who is the owner, which well, III shouldn't repeat myself. I'm sure it's clear what i'm saying yeah I think it's particularly convincing for a greek to say plato doesn't belong to us.
发言人   45:27
IT belongs to the world but is true. I mean, and if you look at the greatest students of plate or the classics, they don't tend to come from modern greece. There are some but they started in uh, west european or american universities and they became great.
发言人   45:44
They didn't just become great in greece. Let's hope one day greece will produce great classes, uh, home grown. But what the is not an owner ship is not an ownership.
发言人   45:54
Obviously, we are very lucky because we speak the same language, IT. IT has evolved, but IT is the same language. We use the same alphabet.
发言人   46:03
So we have an access that is privileged and therefore we have an obligation to study them more because it's easier for us. But that's all it's not ownership. They don't belong to greece or to europe.
发言人   46:16
I remember when I first metal greek, I recited him the first line of um the audacity and I asked him he understood IT and he has looked at me conflicted, confused because you knew of course, arashi pronunciation, modern greek is simplified, is a bit different. Young. I had a similar experience with a major politician in a train many years ago.
发言人   46:40
But let's not go there. We're in public. And i'll tell you some other time when we are not recorded um but I do think it's important for us to bring amErica into the conversation. We've spend a lot of time in europe, but really amErica you know because it's the greatest power in the world. IT has IT has monopolies, what the west is.
发言人   47:03
And your book also shows the history of when did amErica comes in to the picture and II guess one thing that will be a surprise to readers is how heavily germany played uh, the role that germany plays in the american narrative of the west I mean for one thing um just in my own case you know the teachers of my teachers are germany they all there are all germans that were squeeze out of germany uh, in the twenty century and they came to amErica and they populated american universities and you also show in your book, uh in the early a twenty a century before Wilson, uh there is no PHD programs in america. You have to go to hydrogen, get a PHD if you want to, don't forget getting in place in getting in and hidden work. You have to, uh, go to germany basically, if you if you want to be an intellectual in america.
发言人   47:57
And and now, you know, today, I mean, I guess I do. We we have to because amErica defines the narrative about the west so much, both both the critics of the west and also the defenders of the west are americans. They have taken on the呃the mental of of，you know whatever is the west since, I guess after uh, the second war war and and your book also traces that history but also uh by tracing that history you show how the take over happens and and it's IT it's something that i'm sure the uh the you know the kissinger and from kiser to today's uh JD vents don't want to really admit that amErica for the longest time uh the europeans didn't want to to consider them as part of the west and and there is a huge debate in europe about how not include amErica uh in the in the west yeah yeah I your a very very, very uh astute and clever and intelligent and sutter reader of my book and very lucky but for the.
发言人   49:07
Uh, audience who can read the book yet as you have uh, it's it's a fascinating so exactly. First of all, the americans in early night, in the beginning of their existence, don't want to have anything to do with the europeans because they see themselves as a new disposition, as a republic that should have nothing to do with the artist, craic, semifixed, imperial alisal, european kingdoms. They are, of course, the first place colonial nation.
发言人   49:34
They rebel against the british empire. So initially, IT would be enough to them to be in an alliance or in a civilizational unit with the other europeans. With the europeans as the west, they shared Christianity. They saw themselves as part of Christian. But other than that, they saw themselves as Better Christians, as Better in every respect, a republic that is pure, where as europe is full of baggage and bad history.
发言人   50:00
And as you say, it's only is through educated americans finishing carver college and going to getting in berlin, hindle, berle and german universities in general to get APHD, that they start using this language of the west a little bit. And then german migrants like Francis liba, who became the founder of american social science, political science, who was obsessed sed with promoting the idea that amErica and europe were part of the same civilization and needed to find the name for IT and so on. And then more and more people, of course, so by end of the one hundred and century americans start calling themselves the west where as before IT was um but IT was a minority use.
发言人   50:45
The other reason, of course, is that they had the government completely something different in in american man are shifting frontier, their westworld expansion. And then as you say, the the thing is that one amErica comes to loom very large with the the two world wars and dominates the west. men.
发言人   51:08
More than more europeans resent that and fear that the extreme west is taking over, and this end is going to dilute to the civilization of europe, which they saw as being composed of smaller countries, diversity, different countries, different cultures, different languages. They fear their enormousness of the united states, and they fear its of its materialism is, uh, concern for money and so on, things that are partly stereotypes, of course, sometimes they are extreme, partly related to some realities that on the ground. So yeah, it's a very, very, very checked story full of surprises.
发言人   51:44
yes. But as you correctly say, there was a west before amErica joining IT. And among the western countries of today, the last one to see that itself as part of the west was the united states. Not, of course, is a surprise that people before reading my book wouldn't necessarily assume.
发言人   52:02
So when they ask me, everybody now asks me, of course, in in the press, is the west over and I reply, not necessarily a phase of the west that started with end of the second world war and the creation of nature and the cold war, which was uh a new phase of the west where there was AA hedging on a dominant superpower and smaller countries that were depending on IT and almost satellite of IT. That praise of the west is probably over even if amErica behaves differently under the new administration in the future. I think the europeans have got a message that they have to uh not rely on amErica for their defense as much as they did because a new administration may come and change things and because amErica has different interests to an extent and so on.
发言人   52:51
But IT doesn't necessary mean end of the west. IT means end of that phase that started in the nineteen and forties. Yeah this is really one of the tensions that I see in um in the kind of the civic center movement also the you know though I guess the conservative turn of the university campuses that started after trump IT is on the one hand they support pulling amErica out of europe they think nato is a drain on you know they are against universities ation on the other hand academically they are against the uh the I guess the critical theory uh neo markus critic self criticism of the west.
发言人   53:35
They want to restore a positive idea of western sive. Um i've been to a lot of those conferences um in amErica and the past couple of years and I and IT seems to me that um it's like a baard son of the west trying to on the one hand pull itself away from really culturally wants to claim to be part of and the long defenders of um in in in the contemporary period I guess you are um maybe you have a different perspective of this um being in in england and but really you know break IT also happened around that same period. Um yeah i'm sure when you're doing the press tour of your books and kind of talking to these various peoples with various persons with different purposes, whether they want to defend the west or they want to criticize the west, they are all coming at IT from a politicized which means it's um almost II wanted an intellectual ironist perspective very yeah well let me this is how I could put IT thankfully.
发言人   54:46
Although I finished the very final corrections and final touches of the book in november two thousand twenty h october two thousand twenty four in viana before the reelection of trap, and certainly long before he was inaugurated the second time and started his current rican policies, although I finished IT before trump too, I wouldn't change a word in the book or in the conclusion, or in the, I will keep IT exactly as IT is. I subscribed to everything I said. That means IT was written carefully and from the perspective of the historian, with the distance necessary to to argue what I was arguing.
发言人   55:28
I supposed to a quick piece for political consumption ological giving event to your feelings right now. So that's the first thing i'm glad I can say with with full honesty. Second thing with full honesty the people are talking about, I agree with them to the extent that some of the criticism of the west in american universities, some of the critical critical um commentary became so extreme, became so forgot, forgot why IT was able to do all that.
发言人   56:02
So they as I call IT in the book, they were in danger of throwing the baby along with the bus water. It's one thing to say the west has made many mistakes. Western governments, uh, are not living up to their principles.
发言人   56:17
This particular government is doing the wrong thing. This episode in our history is very shameful, of which there are many. It's one thing and another thing to say.
发言人   56:26
The west itself has to be rejected, its criminal edge. It's associated with slavery. Which civilization has no slavery in its history, ever? Which civilization has never use violence in these? You see what i'm saying. IT had gone too far. IT was completely, uh, unhinged.
发言人   56:42
The criticism of the western western civilization in american universities, the so called wall agenda, had come to some with fully understandable criticisms, with fully understandable injustices, racial and other injustices, I would add, classical justices that have been forgotten in the name of ratio injustices in recent years and decades. All these things, of course, they have to be raised. That's exactly what the west is supposed to allow and encourage and that's why i'm in favor of the dialogue debate.
发言人   57:18
But there was a certain um exaggeration and IT was becoming hegemon ic and universities and I making myself clear. So i'm i'm not saying therefore I agree with american first president and his retort c i'm saying he and his president could be elected because they could use some extreme examples of what the other side was saying and doing, because the other side was making fundamental mistakes in the wait, was taken in the discussion and they could present themselves as the real part riots. Where's their opponents were just undermining everything that was american about america.
发言人   57:57
Am I clearing my two cat? No, II think I agree the new one arguments are always a in the german word yeah it's the yah and nine, it's never, it's never one sided. exactly. So there isn't why i'm pleased with the way the book was formulated, is that although I finished IT with that, that as my main target and attempt to mitigate the excesses of the left, if you wish, or whatever we want to call IT, now the book can be used exactly to the opposite purpose of criticizing the excesses of those who came to react to those excesses.
发言人   58:40
Which is the current uh trumpet administration and device president in particular and the speech writers like Stephen Miller and of course Steve bon, who was there before in this back now in some capacity. So the book can also be used against them now and say, no, the western, western civilization doesn't mean what saying. So I am obviously going to be unpopular with everybody in a way, but i'm glad with what my book does, because IT is a proper history, a proper generation of the of the history of the concept and IT can give resources to any serious new and stinker who wants to reflect carefully about the west and it's uh tradition as well as its potential future as opposed to using quick arguments to win an election yeah, I always think of the job of the intellectual historian as the person that loosens the ground. Because you see ideas, the the ideas become ossified, and they are used on reflexively. And people in the end, they use them without really understanding what IT means.
发言人   59:44
And once that really happens in the worst possible situation, um language itself even becomes just totally inaccurate and um you know in the worst case in the worst possible case you make grammatical mistakes without no you don't even know how to write correct grammar and and at the highest level intellectual historians are kind of like earthworms that loosens the ground and and show show us you know where those words originally started and and because they do that there they have to be unpopular um in both sense of the words they're unpopular because we can't really live everyday life hesitating, not knowing, you know thinking of if if I used the world rest now having read your book, II would feel I wouldn't be comfortable sort of destroyed that word out having known IT has such a complicated history and IT really means nothing and and if I do that with every word I can't live i'll lose the ability to speak like a regular human being. Is also unpopular in the second sense that um you know but anybody that wants to politicize and capture that word for their own ideologies wm won't be able to do that intellectual historian is is unpopular unless unless they employ me to do IT for them um in which case I will try to do IT very convincing i'm joking. Uh so very very correct and you remind me of some comments the french um uh thinker and next now made on the nation and how history, good history undermines the meats and the cohesion of the nation in these narratives because of course the narratives are full of meats necessarily in order to create a glue where as good history.
发言人   01:01:30
Reminds you that the stories always much more complex. I am not against narratives and some, but you can have meets conducive to Better things, are supposed to meats conducive to bad things. So we can improve the quality of our, even of our simply list c maths through good history.
发言人   01:01:50
That would be my my hope. Yeah, your book destroys the west. You your book shows that the west is a series of myth. And even know you are not just talking about small weight, uh, thinkers.
发言人   01:02:03
You you kind of see how, for example, when I, having gone through the whole book and reaching the bangalore chapter on the decline of the west, seeing him in that foot, know that you mention just kind of thing. Let's abandon euro all together. And the west is should now be嗯the main conceptualizing that we use when thinking of our civilizations。You really see the artifically of ideas in your book.
发言人   01:02:32
And I yeah I was I guess I guess the only thing that um you II like that you brought up early for non because nation is another is another concept that that just requires the myth IT requires the artifically I mean once you dismantle IT um you become disinterested in max spab's word and this enchantment yes no yeah yeah but that's why I said because as i'm also a citizen i'm also a person living in in the world i'm not just detached historian who lives in another planet. I understand the need for meats as well. I understand the meat, the need for social cohesive and some glue.
发言人   01:03:17
So that's why I said there are two levels at which you can do this for historians and for very sophisticated political system readers and intellectuals. They can follow me all the way and read the book and and have a very subtle understanding of the complexities. But I am very happy also to uh simplify the narrative in articles and interviews to say, according to this story, this is what this could mean today.
发言人   01:03:47
So i'm trying to say II don't necessary wish to completely destroy any in narratives. I want to improve their narratives. I want to improve them the midst by which people live through informing them by good history.
发言人   01:04:00
So there are various layers or levels at which I would put the argument. And, uh, the problem is that you are too clever. So I am dealing with somebody could read the book very carefully, and we are going through the whole story, wherein other interviews in the articles, I could have a more simplified story.
发言人   01:04:22
That's what i'm trying to say. okay? I want to throw a criticism that has been thrown toward me, toward you because I think you deserve IT as well. I'm beginning to be flatter already yeah um you know other chinese like well minded chinese intellectuals, we've gone through all the toils of the twenties center have said to me, why do you have to destroy the idea of amErica is the beacon of liberty. It's not like, what good does IT do?
发言人   01:04:49
I mean, you can say that, uh, for someone who lives in england as well, like we are under threat by barbaric forces and you can agree with me that the what whatever the back or the bar the barbarism is bad um you don't want you know we want to live in a open minded society um that that has certain values and unfortunately those those values are now called western values or american values or liberal values and and um you are you are providing ammunition to the evil forces that you know uh that we have to admit the um that are threatened, the integrity of our society right now and if you're really an intellectual and you want to take certain responsibility, you realize that um there's political responsibility in addition to the lecture al honesty yeah III have know that that criticism has been hurled toward me with really good intentions and and I struggle to answer this so I want to put IT you as well. Thank you. Well, it's a wonderful criticism.
发言人   01:06:03
I try, I try very hard not to do that. That's why I was saying, I, I, I do want to defend some narratives. So my answer would be, i'm not trying to demolish the idea of amErica or the idea of the west.
发言人   01:06:16
I'm trying to improve IT. I'm trying to improve IT. I'm trying to say the real american thing or the real western thing is to always be critical of your culture. Random issues for IT.
发言人   01:06:30
That's why the definition, although II avoided in the whole book to take sides and I try to give other people's definitions and I keep saying um my job is to study them historically I couldn't avoid in the conclusion and i've been criticized midway and I accept that criticism in then II adopt um the the the definition of hamon at home with somewhere says the the true westerner corrects along the true westerner um is will find IT so let's let's not stick there. So that's what i'm trying to do and i'm not trying to demolish IT. I'm trying to enrich IT.
发言人   01:07:12
I'm trying to make IT Better. And that's why one of the heroes of the book is Richard right, the african american novel list, who kept saying, I am western. I like the west.
发言人   01:07:23
I like freedom of speech. I like separation of church and state. I like the, the, the freedom of science to, to, to develop, to, to search for truth.
发言人   01:07:34
I like the freedom of art. And his complaint was, very often, western governments do not live up to the principles and the ideals declared as western. So he, he was. My interpretation of his thought is that he complained in the one thousand nine hundred and fifties the west is not western enough so that I hope that helps to the to reply to that criticism of people towards both you and me.
发言人   01:08:02
IT is part of being a defender of the rail west to criticize IT constantly in order to improve IT, but not to criticize IT in a suicide dal way, in the way, in a self regulating way, in the way that almost would destroy IT before coming up with some Better alternative. So II try to improve IT would be my answer do do I make sense or am I making IT worse yeah and and I also like how i've squeeze out of you that um you are also a fan of roman ara oh yes I think a that cannot be hidden in the in the tone in which I write about him oh，you you are there. Sorry, II thought, I thought I press the wrong back on again, but hopefully not.
发言人   01:08:51
No, I am still here. Yeah II think I think of you listed, you examined, you know, not just defenders or simple critics of the west but also very sophisticated thinkers that have we it's I mean a rent iran and straws those people that have written around the same time they are they are not just simple politicization of the west. I think they are also sophisticated thinkers that um that try to start from the sort of the twenty eighth century post war perspective and think about what that means.
发言人   01:09:32
Um we can say that I mean, I think being in amErica and really being taught by several strong as I can say that you know some of their students have maybe basterds zed their thought um more than the the original um but nevertheless I mean I think this book this book has done a lot of a debunking and dimensions ation but it's also a kind of a Christal zone of um you know there are brilliant in the history of in the in the ideas of how western, how the idea of the west was conceptualized thank you. I found the quotation and is very brief so we can go to IT I said of course so we should substitute uh person for man but other than that, the definition he says the true westerner is the man who accepts nothing unreservedly in our civilization except the liberty IT allows him to criticize IT and the chance IT offers him to improve IT. So if that's the definition then i'm defending that west but by definition is an open west, is a west that is open to self criticism and and improvement, and that is worth defending.
发言人   01:10:51
So the real friends of the west or liberty of amErica would see that as an attempt to improve IT, not doesn't attempt to a talk IT down or destroy IT yes I hope we can persuade your critics yeah um I think we are ended mean k we end this conversation with having discovered more common ground that I already thought that I have a lot of come on ground with you having read the book but um but even just during this conversation II heard many names that are music to my ears I ve always been a fan of earth non and where when iron and it's unfortunate that for understandable political reasons irons um book about intellectuals probably won't be translated into vendor but but his name should be said more after and um and even in the american academy I mean I don't really see that many readers of women around anymore. It's unfortunate IT is unfortunate. And of course in france he was very lonely.
发言人   01:11:56
He goes a man with immense courage when all the intellectuals, uh, where of one political side, by by end of his life, they, they, they, they honor him and when by the time he died, he was very much recognized. But he had immense courage and he had another thing that I admire very much he would never dare pronounce publicly on something unless he had studied the subject enough to know what he was talking about. So he became a kind of specialist in nuclear weapons and in all sorts of things, and theory of war and son, in a way that very few people who are called intellectuals and pronounce on too many things do so definitely you're right um I try to be neutral in my tone with my thinkers but with some it's very obvious that there is immense admiration and he's definitely one of them.
发言人   01:12:48
Yeah yeah um yeah II remember i'll end on uh one anecdote that I heard about iran from my from one of the american ist at boston college who me he was a student of bertran d juvenile and um and I think iron died around past away the day after he showed up at court to defend burren the juvenile because he was accused of working with the nais which was not true and so so iran died defending his friend and I thought I was very honner's able way yeah it's a passing befitting of his stature yes and if if one reads what he says about a Simon vail both in a royal doesn't lecture that you mention in in the afterward that herode to the second edition ending his it's it's an incredible thing because he shows a sensitivity and he was not uncritical of him. He was his wife's best friend and he didn't approve of him when he, her friend, just met him. But the admission for that remarkable person shows a lot about his generosity, of course, and open, mindless.
发言人   01:14:03
Well, thank you, georgia. So I feel like week this could go on for hours. That thank you.
发言人   01:14:08
Think I was taking idea. We should do that again. We should do IT again sometime.
发言人   01:14:14
Yeah, even without writing another a amazing book like this, you, you should, we should talk more often. lovely. Yes, absolutely.
发言人   01:14:24
Thank, thank you very much. Thank you very much and thank you. Prince university. What can I say this?