2026-06-03_一人公司的另一种可能：AI 负责经营，人类负责热爱 _ 英文访谈 S10E14_6a201265989e711d01b98c47_原文
2026年07月02日 14:59
发言人   00:00
用声音碰撞世界，生动活泼。
发言人   00:14
Hello大家好，我是丁糸，欢迎来到今天的科技早知道。今天我们想聊一下OPC这个话题。该时代很多人都想自己做一家OPC，也就是one person company，一人公司一个人在加几个A镇，可以做掉过去一整个团队的工作。今天我们的嘉宾是gm role的创始人，他是小而美这本书的作者。然后这本书的英文名字叫做the minimal entrepreneurs，然后作者叫做撒hula via。如果说今天大家讨论的这个OPC是AI火了之后才出现的概念的话，那我觉得撒Q可能可以算得上是这个领域的OG了。
发言人   00:52
刚入一开始的时候确实是一家非小而美的公司。他们是完全走了硅谷那种标准的融资路径，拿投资招团队，然后追求增长。但是因为增长的速度不如VC的预期，所以他们没有能够融到B轮。然后公司被迫大幅度裁员，从二十多人团队缩到几个人，甚至是有一段时间其实就剩下了创始人小秀自己。也就是在这个过程当中，gao才变成了一家小并且高自动化然后持续盈利的公司。
发言人   01:27
所以对今天想要做OPC然后独立创业，或者是想用AI放大个人杠杆的这些创业者来说的，他的经验其实还是蛮有参考价值的。比如说在A证的帮助之下，gmo作为一个年入2000万美元的公司，他们现在从技术到客服人员是怎么设置的？然后如果重来一遍的话，他们会更加重投入市场？还是产品。当然了也有他在前些年参加马斯克的斗志，就是政府效率部门之后，他又加入了LS就是美国税务局的一些他的思考。如果你想要做OPC，这期节目或许会对你有一些启发。这期是一个英文的访谈，按照惯例我还是会一开始把内容用中文跟大家先总结一下。So yeah, I started building stuff when I was a kid.
发言人   02:18
Yes, you know, starting with photoshop and web design, and had access to those tools. 小黑又自己的创业故事其实还是蛮硅谷的。他很早就开始做自己的一些小东西。比如说是玩这个photoshop，然后做网站，后来学习了这个iphone的开发，然后在APP store上发布了自己的应用等等。后来patrice创始人看到他的作品之后，就邀请他加入团队。他应该是patrice的第二位员工。那个时候他还是在读大学，只读了一个学期，然后他就决定退学了，然后去加入了pin rest。
发言人   02:51
后来没有过多久，大概过了一年多之后，他就开始创办了自己的公司，叫做gro一开始的时候，他也是走的这种非常典型的硅谷的路径。融资、扩张、招人，追求高速度的这样的增长。但是gmo后来的发展其实是并没有按照VC的预期，它是一个好生意，然后有收入，也有用户的增长，但并不是那种指数级爆发的增长。于是钢肉其实后来就裁员了，然后团队缩到很小，然后很长一段时间他就搬到了其他的城市，几乎是一个人把公司维持了下来。再后来又到了疫情期间，创作者经济爆发了，然后钢其实又迎来了一波增长。他们现在仍然是一家年收入将近2000万级别的这样子的一个公司，但他的团队还是相对来说还是蛮小的。
发言人   03:44
小Q自己在节目里面说，他们现在核心是三个工程师，然后加上兼职的一个CFO，加上兼职的法务，还有1.5个客服人员。很多的客服和运营的流程，其实都用AI agent可以完全处理掉了。这段经历对于他来说还是蛮重要的，因为小黑并不是说站在我要鼓吹大家全都是去做艺人公司的这个位置讲话。他是真实的经历过融资扩张的这个VC模式，然后也是经历过这种非常精简，然后以盈利优先，自主的这种小公司的模式。所以当我们现在重新再谈OPC的时候，他的判断我觉得还是会有一些超越周期的借鉴意义的。Like people say one person company, I would say four people. And the the reason is you want one engineer who's awake to all about the day, and then you get another engineer wake, and then you need the same per customer support.
发言人   04:42
这些里面我觉得有一个非常有意思的点，就是他并不认为艺人公司就真的只能有一个人。大家现在说的OPC很容易想象，就是一个人加几个AI agent，然后就可以不需要团队了。但小秀说，如果真想要给你的用户提供很好的体验的话，可能最后不是一个人，而是四个人。哪四个人呢？产品客服各2个，然后他们俩班倒，那为什么呢？比如说是刚好现在大量的客服已经是由AI来处理了，他们说当然可能后面完全是可以用AI来代替。但是如果用户发现问题，然后需要一个非常好的用户体验的时候，还是需要人在最后处理一些比较复杂的问题，特别是当AI可能解决不了的一些问题的时候，用户不应该等很长的时间，而是应该有一个非常厉害的人类，马上进来接手把问题处理掉。所以他想象的这个极简的公司里面，并不是完全没有人，而是有一个非常小的团队，然后负责产品工程研发等等，然后有人负责这个用户和支持。The building stuff is not even a differentiator at this point, so it's even more about who are you building for for, and what problem are you solving for them, what are you solve with them.
发言人   06:00
第二个我觉得他讲的一个比较重要的点，就是AI可以帮你写代码，但是不能够帮你找到客户。我问小Q现在其实coding的门槛越来越低，大家都可以把code让AI写一个应用，那是不是小产品其实是反而更难推广，更难卖了。以前可能写软件是一种门槛，现在每个人都可以让自己的A证去写一款健身追踪，比如说是日程管理各种小工具的那用户为什么还需要买你的那小秀他自己的回答也很直接，他说你当然不可能只花15分钟，然后让agent做一个AI的APP，然后就指望他能赚很多的钱，这个有点太天真了。如果你真的是懂这个领域，懂这个赛道，然后花一个周末能够做出一个很完整，能够真正解决用户实际问题的这个软件，比如说是给承包商管理排期、发票、库存合同的工具，稍微复杂一些的，他是仍然可以卖钱的。在过去你可能需要花六个月的时间才能把这样的一款软件做出来。那现在可能一个周末就能做出一版进行迭代。所以AI真正改变的其实不是产品自动帮你赚钱，而是它的试错成本变得更低了。
发言人   07:15
但是最核心的问题始终都没有变化，你到底为谁在做这样的一个产品？这样的一个产品是否真正的解决了用户的痛点，这也是小在回看小而美这本书的写作的时候说到的一个变化。我问他如果今天要重写这本书的话，他会做出一些什么改动？
发言人   07:34
他回答就是说他可能会少用community这一个词，因为这个词现在已经被说的有点太多了，太模糊了。可能更直接的说法就是谁是你的客户，然后你想让谁的生活变得更加美好。AI时代build变得越来越便宜，真正稀缺的可能就是这样子的一个判断。At the end of the day, let's say, you have a product that you've built and it's amazing and someone else has the product and its not even as good as your product, but they have humans selling on.
发言人   08:04
第三点，我觉得对很多创业者、产品人，或者是像我们这种的内容创作者都会有启发。就是最好的软件不一定是躺赢的。销售故事，还有这个产品的人味非常的重要。
发言人   08:19
小秀很坦诚的聊到了当时他跟他的竞争对手配上的对比。很长的一段时间都非常注重产品，注重设计，他自己也承认他自己更加喜欢去做产品，不是很喜欢做市场和推销。但patron在创作者市场里面，其实后面做的更大一个很重要的原因就是他们更擅长做市场营销，更擅长讲故事，然后更懂一些创作者的群体，尤其适合youtube、音乐人，粉丝经济的那一套。
发言人   08:51
这点在AI时代其实也蛮重要的。因为当工具越来越容易做的话，软件本身也越来越容易被复制。真正能拉开差距的其实不是我也能做一样的功能，而是你是不是理解这一群，你的受众的这一群人，你是不是真的懂他们的痛点，然后是不是能够用他们懂得的语言把产品真正的讲给他们听，是不是能跟这一群人建立信任。所以咱就说如果是一个技术创始人，今天要招一个人的话，他觉得应该是销售。因为有的时候用户不是在理性的比较两个产品的功能，一个AI自动生成的邮件也许挺好的。但如果有一个真人在认真的听你讲，然后理解你的问题，跟你建立人和人之间的连接的话，仍然可能会影响这个客户。
发言人   09:41
I think that actually more people want to be interpreted, urs. They just don't want to run the business rate. So like looks like you have an amazing bury的，第四个讨论我觉得是非常有意思的，我自己觉得也是蛮开脑洞的，就是关于压会不会接手CEO的这个工作。
发言人   09:59
撒哈又提到了一个还蛮有意思的想象，就是很多人创业其实他们不想经营公司。比如说是很厉害的一个咖啡师，他可能只是享受做咖啡这件事情而已。比如说是财务、税务、供应链、法律、工资、库存等等这些很繁琐的事情，他其实是不想自己做的那未来有没有可能AI变成了CEO，大量处理这种公司运营的功能。而人类可以专注于自己做最擅长的，最有创造力，然后最享受的那一部分工作。
发言人   10:32
过去的创业其实意味着你不仅仅只是需要做产品。然后包括变成老板之后要处理的很多鸡毛蒜皮的事情。你要变成管理者、HR财务负责人、法务接口等等等等。未来可能会有这样的一种新的形态的出现，就是说你仍然拥有这家公司，但是AI会替你处理大量的这种机器运转的部分。你更像是这一个事业里面最核心的创作者，或者就是手艺人。虽然今天还不能完全实现，但是我觉得他提供了一个蛮有意思的方向。就是AI不会让每个人都变成CEO，而是让更多人不被CEO的这些杂物给困住。
发言人   11:11
I still worked forty hours for the s currently, but 4，week and weekends, I, I think about IT a lot. 第五个有意思的部分是撒谎。最近进入美国政府系统之后的一些观察，他曾经短暂参加过这个斗志，就是政府效率部门，就是马斯克做的那个项目。他后来又加入了IOS，然后也就是美国的税务局，继续做他的这个政府数字化服务的相关的工作。这段经历挺特别的，因为他一边在运营gorm roll，然后一边在做这个极其庞大复杂，非常缓慢的服务所有人的公共系统的数字化。他在节目里面其实也提到了，创业公司和政府最大的区别就是创业公司可以选择客户，但是政府不行，政府必须服务所有人。
发言人   12:01
政府软件难做的地方就是它不仅仅只是要把这个界面做的好看。而是要想怎么样能够把原本要打电话、寄信、排队、填纸质表格的这些流程，变成普通人可以在线。完成的服务，而且还得男女老少都能用得上手。他举了一个例子，在美国过去的这个DNV，也就是美国的这个交管部门，过去他的线上的体验非常的差。但是这几年很多州通过线上的这个自助服务，已经得到了明显的改善。所以他希望LS也能够完成类似的转变。
发言人   12:36
这部分让我其实感觉到小而美的讨论其实不仅仅只是聊创业公司的效率问题。AI和软件当然可以让小团队更加有杠杆，但他们也可以让那些庞大的、低效的、影响很多人的公共的系统变得更加好用一些。Like I would be doing the mini r IT.
发言人   12:58
The goal isn't like zero. You like, I enjoy. II want to have a compact that I actually joy working on. I don't want to go to zero because then that I have to do something else.
发言人   13:12
总结一下，这些并不是一个简单的AI时代艺人公司OPC要怎么做的一期节目。我觉得我可能有三个take away。就是AI让创作者的这个门槛执行门槛降低了，但是没有降低判断门槛。还是要知道你的客户是谁，然后谁会为你买单，这个其实是没有变的那第二个就是AI可以让公司变小，但是人还是非常的重要，特别是销售，故事，信任的用户理解这些东西，暂时还是没有办法能够用AI直接去替代。甚至是可能如果有人来去做的话，会让你的产品更加优于竞争对手的产品。
发言人   13:55
然后第三就是小而美，不是越小越好，也不是最好。就是公司里没人，它反而像是一种选择权。创始人可以决定自己想要多大的公司，然后想要承担多少的管理，然后想要把时间花在什么事情上面。我觉得他又不是在鼓吹大家都去创业，也不是说AI会让创业变得更加的轻松。它更像是说当工具变得足够强的时候，大家终于有机会去重新选择一种属于自己的工作方式。不是每个人都需要加入这个大公司，然后不是每个公司都需要融资扩张。你可以从一个真实的客户开始，从一个能收费的小产品开始，可能这才是小而美在AI时代变得更加重要的原因。如果你正在思考AI时代的创业，然后个人杠杆、自由职业，或者只想知道这个小而美这一套东西在今天还有没有意义，我觉得这一期可能会对你有一些启发。欢迎大家继续收听节目的这个完整版，嘉宾是group创始人小而美的作者saho，libya.
发言人   15:11
节目开始前想和大家分享一个消息，研究显示到2050年全球将有一半人会近视，10分之1会高度近视。现在几乎所有国家都在谈论近视率的上升，我们的青少年播客knock knock世界本周就聊到这个话题。节目除了从科学层面解释近视，还解读了是什么因素让近视变成了一个全世界都重视的公共医疗问题。感兴趣的朋友可以点击单集简介中的链接收听。
发言人   15:50
Yeah yeah, back to your previous experience. So you worked that painters for for a year or so and then you when trees are your own business, so you are twenty and then you raise a tons of busy funding yeah, I raised a million, one point one million dollars c round every where you may, or something of the next year. I raised a series day, which was like a seven, nine, I think, round plant of perkins, like that round.
发言人   16:19
That was like the first time as I, oh, this is really like, serious before I was kind of like i'm doing this thing and it's kind of wear but IT feels like a reality TV show but then I was like, oh, well, I have aboard in a series a and like seven million dollars in a team in an office okay, now i'm like locked in like four years over earth, five years or what not. And this is working on all the time now, live, work, you know, kind of experience. We still do that today.
发言人   16:46
We should do IT with a very small team about fight. Back then. We grew about twenty five at peak.
发言人   16:53
We were about to run out of money. We ve got a bridge from plant of perkins, two million dollars. And so at this point, we have raised about ten total.
发言人   17:01
And we basically had about year to, I get to profitability. We failed we failed to raise a series, be around the funding. So we basically downsized. We laid everyone off. We went down the three employees and then just down to me and then I basically just run the business myself.
发言人   17:20
We got over the office on for about uh, five years from the twenty fifteen tobit basically happening and just kind of break even scout crew profile. A couple contract is helping out here and there and then code happened. And that was our moment of like what we're like growing like super fast.
发言人   17:40
That was really working like again all the time for like two years, three years. IT wasn't planned for um IT was fully remote and then that ended in nine, twenty, twenty three and twenty twenty four. Interest rates went up.
发言人   17:54
We increase our pricing now are like a very nicely profitable business. We have great finance function, legal function all all you need to run a business. You know I can basically run IT a day a week um and then I work at the irs.
发言人   18:09
I still worked for the hours for the IOS. Currently, but four days a week. Now like if you go back to twenty of keen, right when I laid everyone off, we got to profit ball.
发言人   18:21
We had three people. After that, we have like two or three contractors to do support and bug fixes. If that happened today, I would probably not hire those humans, or right, I would spend more time being like helping.
发言人   18:37
We just have an AI agent automate processes that I that someone has to do, whether it's customer support well, and you can do IT one hundred percent, but I think back then you could automate basically twenty percent of the work. And so you had a human to eighty percent of the work, uh and required like four to five hours a day, not I hours today. But each of these jobs was like enough where I would not do be able to do IT sustainably.
发言人   19:05
I would just get burned out um and I would have a job that I would not be able to get away from. And but today now you know AI agents with the law for basically probably something like an hour a day or fifteen minutes today. And I still have a team, right? So you can.
发言人   19:25
But there like a lot of the work they do is observing the AI and doing additional development work and things like that. So for first time, founder who wanted start a tech company. As for now, so do you think any job function are hard to replace these days or does not exist as long as you know how to go, you know how to use agent, how you know how to deploy, you know architecture works, and then you can just basically do everything by yourself.
发言人   19:54
I mean, I think there's nothing that you can't have an agent do. It's more than there are just certain things that are still time consuming even if you happen and do the word. And so if you just have a limited amount of time, you're going to need dire other humans, right? So for example, even if IT a lot of like the monthly closed financial function book keeping functions at the company with AI, we sought to pay taxes to a bunch of different countries and states every a month, every quarter, every year in those tax.
发言人   20:25
And if those government websites are annoying to work with, IT doesn't matter how good your AI tool is that like you're stolen out tap like a human like you know, type in a name and like phone and then you ll have a capture, you know, robot won't be able to saw a, or you'll have to call a human or who know anything else that you that maybe short term cannot be replaced by. If you're doing something purely with a software, I would say the first person you should probably have there would be a sales person because presume you're building the products. You're probably doing sales in the beginning, but eventually you're gonna want even without infinite amount of agents, you're still going to be wanting to spend all your time shipping product and bogs at thinking, at least that's my for my bias or my respect.
发言人   21:22
So I would ably want to bring in a gummer. We brought in this guy, right? Dog a.
发言人   21:28
But similarly, I would breaking somebody who just would focus purely, you know, some super Young kid who can just email ed creators, talk to them all day long, get them to use the product. So sometimes the users still want some like human touch. They don't want to be like IM talking to asia.
发言人   21:46
And again, I want some like a human. At the end of the day, let's say you have a product that you've built and it's amazing and someone else has the product and its not even as good as your product, but they have humans selling and you're business and you get two emails. One is like AI written is very good IT solves your problem, but what is human?
发言人   22:07
I do think that like that person that may with the deal, it's almost irrational in a way, right? Like engineer, you may hard time justify, but this doesn't make sense. This is a hard lesson i've learned.
发言人   22:18
I don't know anything i've learned IT to be amazon like this the best often or does not win, right? like. So I focused on building the best often are are but patron, you know, is a much larger company.
发言人   22:32
I don't think they thought that good, but they have nailed the sales marketing aspect, I think. And now because they have been able to hire a lot people, they're been able to prove the product. And I have AI all the stuff.
发言人   22:45
So now it's like a pretty a product. But like when we were compete and I remember being like why are we losing but on fundamentally different products as well. But but I do think like you know just like leadership, lies and stuff, we're very focused product engineering design.
发言人   23:00
They're very focused on based marketing and making money, creative campaigns like cost user, our reach and stuff. Yeah, III think they're way more connected in the youtube. They knew that audience and they went after that audience. So after that, we didn't you would think of that audience as a potential target.
发言人   23:19
I think that business model was more aligned with what you know ultimately worked in the market, uh, like a sort of more patron based model of supporting creators and selling visual products like select ital products is also kind of like a got millennial thing to do in a way, right? Like it's like like out. It's a timely doing and people are not as much selling selling usual products as much any money.
发言人   23:45
I think last year, a lot of a company, they're high in this role, like story tellers. I think for like VC fun, like some tech companies, they want this kind of storyteller. I know.
发言人   23:56
What do you think about that? Is that like kind of marketing and like creative stuff? There is another way of saying content created.
发言人   24:03
It's funny. There's only so many rules in software business rate. And you could even say easy for soft businesses, media businesses, also.
发言人   24:11
Soft businesses like there's the people who build the product, sp, engineers, designers, then there's the people who sell the product and then there's people who like market the product. And in my opinion, the people will market the product. We just keep changing their name in order to hire them.
发言人   24:29
But they used to build marketers communicating with people, P, R, influencers, content, create our social media. You're just hiring people to generate impressions. And IT really is like, doesn't even that really matter what they do? But the truth is there are two, at least two kinds of people.
发言人   24:50
There is the people who want to talk to the customer and then the people who want build the road. And they almost never overlap, right? Like founders happen to overlap a little bit, but there's always, always going to be a strong preference one way or the other.
发言人   25:03
I would say like Steve jobs, I guess as he enjoyed building product, he didn't enjoy talking to customers. You know then you have someone like glory ellison who probably like talking to customers and did really care that much about the process you can use. You can even use the products and kind of tell like, okay, this got this works, but is because they just really get to sales were like microsoft, right? Is a classic, probably the example of this.
发言人   25:26
I care way more about designing product, right? So so anyway, I know I think you're always going to have the government could trick even more in size, but I think I think that simply we could shrink to effectively four people. I would say that like the the like people say one person company, uh I would say four people.
发言人   25:45
And the reason is, uh uh you want one engineer who's awake you know twelve today and then you need another engineer is wake the other twelve hours in the day and then you need the same for customer support. So if you want, like to offer you the best possible customer spirits, which is like effectively ly almost like an effectively uh uh an instead reply from an AI if that doesn't solve the issue of fifteen minute, really, really diligent ten ten times the compute sort of response and that doesn't solve problem. Fifty minutes in an hour you get a human who's getting paid, uh, significant amount of money, who effective ly has nothing else to do because everything has been automated, who can just work on your issue, solve the issue, solve the bug.
发言人   26:33
This boy would Normally take two weeks to saw, but they can literally work on IT. And if they can finish IT, they they structure IT so they can hand IT off to the person who then worked on IT. That to me is like, yes, I could choose to fire everybody you can and just run governed myself right and I would just have to come in in the office, which I have its five minutes from my house um IT has water and food and and people clean up weekly.
发言人   26:56
I could come come in as internet can come in, I can work for like three humans do minimal support. You've met butter but is that that like the right energy right to like minimize, like I would be thin in the middle. Entrepreneurs, I wanted have a compact that I actually joy working on.
发言人   27:15
Um I don't want to go to zero because that I have to do something else. I think two theories that admit h the four uh four hours uh work week and his school is not work. I think the core um take away for me is you can choose you can decide whether you want to a pick this way or not.
发言人   27:38
Having for a lot of my chinese friend who work for like by hand or red nose or I feeling there kind of they have to keep running. If I stop, everything will be ruin. They were like so afraid to like not responding to calls or emails and ten PM.
发言人   27:53
They always go back to to back, go back to their apartment at twelve. They look horrible and they feel that they're not help mothy. I just feel they don't have a choice. yeah.
发言人   28:03
I mean, the truth is like IT feels like you don't have a choice because if you get off the train, it'll continue, right? And even if you cash out with five million dollars, if you waited one more year, you'd have ten million dollars, right? A sort of a human psychological condition that like is on unresolved.
发言人   28:22
It's it's like IT is the nature of the industry. Like, sorry, you picked an industry in which IT does have these crazy multipliers. And you know like I saw yesterday, like cognition raised a billion dollars in the twenty six billion dollar valuation.
发言人   28:38
Like, wow, that's crazy. A billion dollars raised as sincere, but then anthropic just raised sixty five billion, you know is like incomprehensibly large, is twice as large the largest IPO in history and it's still pride. It's like hard to comprehend, right? Yeah so you you I was just trying to get to the to the point that you said the a lot of people got laid off and some of them might choose to become entrepreneur.
发言人   29:05
But entrepreneurship seems like very scary for a lot of people. There is not a lot place to learn how to be entrepreneurs. But do you think things will be different by now? I could imagine that the AI.
发言人   29:19
Takes over the role of the CEO. I think that actually more people want to be entrepreneurs. They just don't want to run the business, right? So like, let's say, you have an amazing buri staff.
发言人   29:32
They may want their own coffee shop, but they may want their own design, their own name, their own location, uh, their own hours. They want all the money that they they would make for them, but they don't want to deal with the distribution stuff. They don't want to do, maybe the'd even do the marketing of, but they don't want to deal with the you know sourcing.
发言人   29:53
They don't want to deal the supply chain management. They don't want to deal with payroll. They don't want do what taxes.
发言人   29:58
They don't want to deal with finance. They don't want do with legal. You could imagine that they use in an agent, that agent does all is effectively the seal of the company.
发言人   30:09
They run the business and they effectively almost employed the human. The human is still the owner of the business, right? Like legally, that's the day.
发言人   30:18
But in side, almost like, I just am the employee, I am the software engineer. G, I just work on A, I runs the company. A. I does the finance illegal, this executive function, the hiring, the firing, all of that stuff.
发言人   30:34
So, you know, I could see a world, you could sort of have an APP on your phone that kind of like warms your business and you get to this will unlock, do the stuff block, even as things get more futuristic. You could imagine a world in which, like even other business partners become automated. So for example, you could imagine that like right now, you you would still have to them like unlock, take all the deliveries, you know, do all that are.
发言人   31:07
But eventually, you could imagine a service if there's enough demand by this new kind of market, you could imagine a service that comes in, they unlock. They have a kiko that unlock the door. They they you know you are inventory for you and then um you they take a photo and then an AI like confirms IT uh and updates your events or right or you do a some think your side when you come in in the office and you just take a photo with your APP and you just thinks your inventory and I just the firms and just make surely is this is this year, is this year? Yes, you good, good, awesome.
发言人   31:42
And you just do you're like, you know your pre work checklist and then you start your job and then you have your post work checklist. And then A, I is just kind of running the business, you know, especially interesting idea, yeah yeah, you can just do the work does most interesting. And an A, I can take care of all the rest yeah like, let's say you want to make twenty percent more money, right? You can just do IT.
发言人   32:04
You can just tell your AI, hey, I want to make twenty percent more money. It's like, cool. You want to be open more hours.
发言人   32:11
Do you want to do a sale? Do you want to do a great like like these are the ways that that copy shops make more money when they want. Like there's some degree of control you have over your income, right?
发言人   32:23
Um it's not infinite like you know you can make, but like there's some degree of of of control here, like an over, you can choose to make more money. You can spend money. Grammar, there are all sorts of stuff you could choose to do.
发言人   32:37
You could record a tiktok. You could, you could, you could do a loyal ana loyalty program. You could do a authorities. And so yes, III could totally see a world, uh, in which, you know, there's an AI that kind of motivates you, I think will experiment, I governor, with these ideas within the context of governor at helping creators sort of like automate.
发言人   33:00
So anything changed that um in this AI agent era then when you roll in the books, do you think anything's different these days that you will change if you write a book? Um I mean I would say I mean philosophy that it's it's similar. I would say the biggest thing is that I would focus more on building for earlier.
发言人   33:19
So I think that when I wrote the book, IT was still like high cost of building stop. So there is a lot of emphasis on like what you wanted to do before you build things not that much, but like the menu valuable process, for example. I would still say it's valid, but you would do that in the context of AI right when you're trying to do the bank of valuable process, like eventually automate some problem.
发言人   33:43
Now you just specially have your AI do IT so for for example, like this, if we built to think that automates creator sales, we work on IT until we found that there is a creator that was starting to make money completely to in an autonomists way, you know, basically generating in our landing pages products, a combination of products, landing pages and um emails sent out because I sleep the way that they break out to their audience typically ally proactively and we just mess around with that until you know in a very manual way, like just humans, like trying stuff shipping features missing around with prompts until it's oh this work, this detail in this way to this subset of the audience frame in this way, which is we know and you just kind of to build that mental map and then you can turn this into a product picture that fully automated, right? Or they just have a dog and there's that's the goal. They should have to do anything else because once there's more than that, the conversion rate, the usage is like zero percent, like IT has to be like, oh yeah, just turn that on and eventually it's so good that we it's like default on and they have to turn that off.
发言人   34:55
That would be you know, that's upon the ultimate can go by otherwise like building community and those part stay the same. II do you others I think if I were to rewrite IT, I would not use the world community, because I just think the world community is like loaded. People think too much about IT. Like if you, if you want to be a musician, who is your audience, who is your listenership. But this issue, as you are doing a business, you need audience.
发言人   35:20
So that's really what it's about who is the whose life we want to make Better because once once you know who that person is that you can actually do that the like who's giving you money for your software, you know um and that is really who are you building for? And then what problem are you solving for them? And then what are you solving up? And he's not the right thing, is not the right solution of the road.
发言人   35:41
And the cool thing is now because building can happen so quickly, you should be able to iterate on that fast. Yeah, you can test constantly instead of like, okay, i'm going to spend six months or a year and trying this one thing, this one use case, you know, like two weeks, two weeks, two weeks, two weeks, you know like you should be able to go much faster um you don't have revenue, two weeks, new customer, new problem, new solution every two weeks until you have revenue. Once you have revenue, then you have a ten percent chance this becomes a real business yeah when last question is my curiosity.
发言人   36:17
So how's IT different from working in silicon valley and in poor government for our s like I mean, very different. I would say there's two big differences or less. Say one is incense, like so IT starts your it's kind of selfish in a way, right? Like you're going to get rich.
发言人   36:35
It's a very pure in a way in center of that works very well. You don't have that in government in government. The incentive, it's hard to explain. You're been honestly like hg doesn't really make sense. Um you don't want to think about IT too hard, obvious.
发言人   36:51
Ly IT just feels good if that is, I don't know, like impact are more positive back and I would have private sector, I say more fun personally because IT is more change for that. Maybe that's what i'm doing IT. But but the other big one is is is time duration.
发言人   37:08
So starts you do have a law in time for duration. But I think that government is much more like everyone is thinking about IT. And I just it's like everything you build is going to exist for fifty years, whether you like IT or not.
发言人   37:21
One hundred years. I mean, you could see what the stamps ahead like. Things will exist for a long time.
发言人   37:26
So you when you make these decisions, you really want to make the right decisions. I think that's IT starts. It's more like move fast, break things, iterate.
发言人   37:36
It's a little harder to do that in the government. Um and the last thing I would says that starts get to pick their customer. And so you just get to focus on like rich people who have a problem and you want to solve IT and they give you money.
发言人   37:49
And you are after the racist with government, it's like you have to serve a hundred percent of people. And it's not about making money, it's just about service, is just about delivering the good to they need to do IT, they don't want to do IT. Um and so it's just about he is like a hundred percent product market fit, right? Like everything I build gets a hundred percent usage.
发言人   38:11
Every single person who uses IT or what needs to use IT, we'll use IT because they need to. The customer satisfaction is like a harder percent because it's like, oh, I was able to do this was automated or like this was self serve. It's a it's a it's a great way of and II would like to believe that by doing this and the real impact is if I can do this successfully, then people will have a Better image of the government because their experience with the government has improved so many, many people's experience what the battle government is tax to.
发言人   38:46
Thank you so much. Yeah, hopefully we can can chat again. yeah.
发言人   38:50
Thank you for your time. Good so much every restaurant day. Thank you.
发言人   39:01
今天的科技早知道就到这里了。听完之后如果你有任何的想法，欢迎在评论区和我们交流。如果有任何想听的话题，也请告诉我们。如果你喜欢我们的节目，请记得分享给更多的朋友。我们下期再见，下期再见。