TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/27/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8625  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-27T16:49:58+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fjxkh56DWDI
SHA256: f415a17242bb4cd350e4bd4673f73a9e48bdf13489290e7646b59b84dc3416f4

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] about a tenth of 1% on the S&amp;P 500.
  [2%] inflation down to 2%. So, even if it is
  [10000] sending up to 10,000 additional ground
  [4%] 10s at 4.45, 2s at 4%. Lisa and I
  [20%] five to six days, and we are reliant 20%
  [0.6] the losses continue down by 0.6 on the
  [15%] down 15% so far in March.
  [0.5%] we're down another 0.5% and the Nasdaq
  [2026] April 6th, 2026. This isn't a a market
  [3%] peak of 3% but not on a yearly basis and
  [10%] Nasdaq 100 down almost 10% from the
  [30%] Microsoft down some 30% from the highs
  [2022] 2022.
  [0.4%] lows. We're down by 0.4% on the S&amp;P. On
  [2021] famous transitory period of 2021, what
  [50%] &gt;&gt; We're now pricing in a 50% chance of a
  [0.4] like this. Negative 0.4 on the S&amp;P
  [80%] least 80% will invest at least 80% in
  [0.5] of 1% on the S&amp;P. We're down 0.5 on the
  [4.46] for the year, 4.46 is where things stand
  [6%] Equities on the S&amp;P 500 down almost 6%
  [1.7%] power, that name is down by 1.7%
  [8%] ran at 8% for two straight years, it's
  [2011] thing as $100 in 2022, let alone 2011.
  [1996] going back to 1996. It's is just a US
  [4.45] 10s at 4.45, 2s at 4%. Lisa and I
  [8.5%] meet 8.5% of private credit fund
  [100%] redemptions in full. 100% it's a flex
  [5%] at 5% say oh I'm so responsible. I'm
  [75%] October, a 75% chance for an ECB rate
  [697000] in Desert Storm was 697,000.
  [2003] Operation Iraqi Freedom in 2003 in Iraq,
  [160000] that was about 160,000. So we're only
  [20000] you're talking about 20,000 total, so a
  [14%] Battalion up 14% in the premarket as it
  [3.8%] those shares up 3.8% in the pre-market
  [4.01%] 4.01%.
  [2020] going back to March 2020. This is
  [110.50] &gt;&gt; Brent crude 110.50, WTI north of 96. On
  [5000] 5,000 to 6,000 if it were fairly priced.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
We're at a world now where there's
heightened uncertainty.
have a relief rally in markets. The
market has been volatile during this
period, but not a tremendous amount of
downside yet.
going to be a resolution.
uncharted waters at this point.
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, extending the uncertainty.
President Trump says he's extending
talks with Iran for 10 more days. As the
energy market is considering a close
straight until at least April 6th, it's
leaving oil at triple digits, leaving
bond yields at the highs of the year.
The uncertainty persists.
tumultuous week and one potential
takeaway could be that the Truth Social
diplomacy plan is losing its punch when
it comes to propping up markets.
Yesterday, we got this Truth Social post
that you were talking about from
President Trump talking about postponing
that deadline. We saw the worst one-day
sell-off before that posting in the S&amp;P
since the war started. Now, we're still
seeing equities lower, we're still
seeing bond yields higher, we're still
seeing oil prices higher. That is the
takeaway for me.
near-term escalation risk with an
extension of the uncertainty.
Persistence is the problem this morning.
If the straight closure persists, triple
digit crude persists. If that's the
case, you don't need oil to keep going
on higher. You just need oil to stay at
these levels to cause sufficient
problems, which is why if you check out
the bond market this morning, twos, 10s,
30s, two-year yields back to where they
were Monday morning before that post on
diplomatic talks. 10-year bond yields
higher than they were on Monday morning.
yields, they're at the highest levels
going back to 1996. It's is just a US
bond market move, it is a global bond
market move as they reckon with the
potential of rate hikes coming from
central banks around the world in
response to oil prices remaining where
they are. We keep talking about
asymmetric risks. The longer this goes
on, the more of a sea change people see
with respect to inflation downside risk
to growth.
This from the Wall Street Journal. Check
out this report. The Pentagon looking at
sending up to 10,000 additional ground
troops to the Middle East to give
President Trump more military options.
That's hanging over this market as well.
troops are sent to the region on top of
the Marines and on top of the eight of
the already deployed soldiers from the
82nd Airborne Division, that would
signal to this market that this
potentially would be a longer, more
protracted war, which is why potentially
you can see crude stay higher for much
longer. We should note, this right now
is just a report, but it does show that
the president is keeping his options
open.
the Fed's easing bias. It eats away at
potentially economic growth. Why send
troops there if you aren't going to use
them? If you have this hardening line
from both sides and this is already
going on for a longer period of time and
ships are not getting through the Strait
of Hormuz, people are pricing in a
slightly new regime, which is what
you're seeing coming through the bond
market, which potentially could be the
real signal that people need to pay
attention to. I think what's going on
the street, obviously, is of critical
importance. This White House, the
president talked about it a lot
yesterday when I was in the cabinet
meeting. But then this morning you see
Iran says that the IRGC turned back
three container vessels through Hormuz.
So you think potentially they're
allowing more individuals to come in,
more vessels to come in if you pay the
Tehran toll, but right now this morning
they're turning back some vessels. And
this is a massive problem for this White
House.
about a tenth of 1% on the S&amp;P 500.
Coming up this hour, Russ Koesterich of
BlackRock as the president extends
talks. Kevin Book of ClearView Energy
Partners with crude still pushing higher
and Joe Davis of Vanguard with policy
makers warning of rising inflation. We
begin this hour with our top story.
President Trump extending talks with
Iran for 10 more days. Leading our
coverage out of the region Bloomberg's
Jamillah Abu Setchi joins us now from
Dubai. Jamillah, it's another 10 days of
uncertainty.
Yeah, well, you know, on first blush
this actually came as a relief to the
the nations in the region. The strikes
on infrastructure and key civilian
infrastructure both against Iran but
also potentially in retaliation against
the Gulf states pushed back by 10 days.
So that was the I would say short-term
reaction. But beyond that there's still
a lot of skepticism about the state of
these talks whether they're actually
happening, whether the Iranians do want
to engage. And the Iranians at least
rhetorically are not signaling that any
discussions are taking place. And in
fact the Iranian foreign minister Abbas
Araghchi gave an interview to local TV
yesterday and he said that they're not
engaged in any talks to end the war.
They don't have plans to engage in those
talks but the US had sent messages to
them via Pakistan which is in line with
the reporting over the last couple of
days. But there is no sign whatsoever
that this in-person summit that people
had been talking about is set to take
place. So that is the diplomacy angle.
But at the same time in light of what
you were just discussing I think we
really are going into a critical weekend
in terms of the mobilization of troops
that the US is amassing in this part of
the world. We've been reporting over the
course of the last couple of days that
there are two Marine expeditionary units
making their way. Our expectation is
that the first unit will arrive in a
couple of days. The next unit should
arrive in mid-April just to give you
an idea of the time frame here. Wall
Street Journal Wall Street Journal
reporting overnight that the Pentagon
are also considering sending 10,000
troops alongside infantry and key
vessels as well. And so the the takeaway
from all of this is the US is preparing
for perhaps another stage of escalation.
And you've got to assume that when once
all of this new military assets these
new military assets are deployed, they
are going to be in striking distance of
Iran or Kharg Islands, which is the key
export islands or there's going to be
some form of an attempt to forcefully
reopen the Strait of Hormuz. There are
little islands situated nearby as well.
So, the overarching question as we go
into the weekend and perhaps is less
about whether diplomacy is going to
yield anything, but actually what the US
is plans are on the ground if there is a
plan. Jumana Abu-Hashish out of Dubai.
Jumana, appreciate your time. Stay
close. No doubt we'll get some news
throughout this morning. The base case
at the start of this war,
it won't matter to markets if it's days
and not weeks. Remember that. And then
it was weeks and not months. And now
here we are at the one-month marker and
a new self-imposed deadline of April
6th. So, we'll be talking about this
into April based on this guidance.
Prediction markets are saying that
through the end of April this could
potentially be the reality. And the
issue is, and people are watching this,
you don't just open the Strait of
Hormuz. You don't just say, "Okay, green
light. Go ahead." This is the issue, the
lag time. And so as people try to price
that in, it seems like another number of
asset classes are really starting to
respond.
region. The longer some of the
production is shut in, the harder it is
to ramp up production coming out the
other side.
note saying if this is protracted, it
……（中部抽样）……
lasts a lot longer, you're looking at
factor risk in the portfolio, and there
moments like this, the bonds don't work.
fertilizer prices, all of which leads to
behind the sell-off. Is it technical? Is
shooting stops. There's been damage to
pike?
caps. To my mind those trades were
coming from new technology whether it's
this hour. Equity futures here down a
shutdown. The bill still needs to pass
is down by 2/10 of 1% and this move
which means crude stays at these levels.
that has a great interest in that. And
You have Marco Rubio just in that room
than 30 countries. We had the NATO
intelligence are actively uh targeting
is something that would probably be
uh
Well, that that's about all you would be
president's new deadline of April 6th
that are coming in as well. It gives him
in Iran. And that moved from
to go through and had to make a U-turn.
10s at 446 and up four basis points on
persists, and it is a problem cuz this
away. Let's get you some morning movers,
those shares up 3.8% in the pre-market
deployed to the region. And finally, the
these funds, why didn't he do it weeks
handling of the economy. Are you happy
remove this point of leverage." It's
depletion are much like the cold
president, I remember a year ago talking
inventories and the front-run Brent
from missing gas westbound into Europe
markets for there to be that kind of
Iranian repost would to would be to
want to put the pressure up even higher.
federal court yesterday. You can see the
cap it, we don't, we're good.
tens, 30s, tens 446 up five basis
avoid recession." Guess what? He's
countries like the Philippines saying
inflation risk is greater right now as a
2 years, you know, obviously some
talk, the less you actually have to do.
that could be one of the more toxic
get the disinflationary fact uh that you
And again, I think there's a really
US is somewhat insulated because growth
hence your point. So, again, you would
that central banker is going to do. You
to be around for the rest of the year,
as the uncertainty persists for global
here now at the lowest level since early
can't. This is a now multi-party
while the market is digesting the fact
worse, and you start hitting energy
and say, "Yeah, you know what? We will
response to Iran targeting civilians.
this hour with the bond market
available. They're not going to cede
something similar, that we're unlocking
add to a bit of credit. Right now, we're
environment for gold. It's the safe
look at forward curves, the one-year
up to that physical market, and that
to bite in the real economy.
tailwind, because of its ability to
What do you think is going to happen?
Asset Management on a very shaky bond
Yohara. Hi John.
1/2% per quarter. According to the
between the US and Iran, we're told.
response function. We're pricing the
Tamari of Bloomberg Government joins us
Congress, including some Republicans.
they're Correct. Thank you. Even the
shut in production, the longer you shut
breakthrough that we don't expect is
basically that the US wasn't ready to
buying time. If he's not ready to pull
know, TACO and the strike price of the
he's in right now, that option is still
need to win two of, Alaska, Iowa, Ohio,
midterms. Tobin, it's good to see you.
100 basically in correction territory.
hike rates? Do they keep rates rates
being operational in in the normal way.
hammered. The blame was originally put
from Danny in the next hour. On our
more to that fight than any other
degrading Iran's capability to be again
capitals in Europe not really getting on
looking through for
Uh we have the textbook and we find we
to it?
have uh higher inflation and certainly
tightening. And I'm not I'm not talking
inflation by making a hike?
conflict uh lasting until April or until
you only look at one one target. But we
with all these bottlenecks in the
strong. Governor, just a final question.
uncertainty, the uncertainty is huge.
a big hike in inflation that uh is
really want to be hiking interest rates
technology. Anthropic argues the ban
joins us next.
We'll put him in the basement of the
about the two It's either a bimodal
rational. It is anticipating that yes,
Well, was it was it that that's a useful
mentioned yourself, versus what's
a new administration came in. It was
slower growth. And
going to be a resolution. We are going
from the President of the United States.
molecules. You cannot reopen the Strait
and that is why the markets are starting
indicates a potential ratcheting up, and
we'll catch up with Mona Mahajan of
are you advocating for between now and
Now, there's a probability around that.
will not. Margin compression is is a
broadening cyclical story and in fact a
2026 story unlike the last 3 years where
demand was overheating, then yes, rate
start to think about um a market that
neutralizing, markets actually prefer
Yes. But I they're aggressively saying
comfortable at extremes because they
Yohai has more. Hi, Yohai. Hi, John.
launched after his tariff agenda was
see that foundation really become rocky
Fed policy and around ECB policy and you
about force majeure, people close to the
finally Mizuho raising its price target
Yesterday in the press room I heard the
space was disinflation. That has
because the labor market's not as tight,
yes.
particular. We were talking with United
What we also see though is
We do have um a more of a view, like I
I've been having with investors
the data. What is March and April going
later this year. We'll get his thoughts
losses down another 4/10 of 1% on the
this moment, nothing seems to be
weighing sending 10,000 more trips of
and let alone door number two, and the
Western Digital down this morning.
should hear from them in about 45
the hold music for telephone?
products. Now, nobody is talking
unemployment, and they're still
wondering how long did it take Mike
is a middle ground. Can you go through
an inflation story. And so, you want to
see how that goes.
second round effects either because uh
to think that it is. I mean, one of the
Um so, I don't think you're going to see
come down. So far, that hasn't happened
uh rate hikes. Uh so, bond spreads have
market that potentially this could lead
……（接近结尾）……
not doing it now.
You know, there's no reason to The Fed
hiking is not going to get oil to flow
more freely. They are going to sit this
out. Are people overly conditioned by
previous crises of confidence where you
did see big drawdowns in the market that
there can be a policy response that
offsets any of the potential downdraft
to growth. I think that is a fair
pushback. I don't think most people
believe that now because everyone
realizes that a policy response it
doesn't help get ships faster through
the straight. A policy response doesn't
help
really offset demand destruction if oil
goes to $150 a barrel, right? There is
an element of demand destruction and and
a policy response doesn't help with
that. So, I don't think the market is
counting on that. I think the there's
two things that the market is counting
on. One is the energy intensity of the
world economy is significantly lower
than it was 10 years ago, 15 years ago,
20 years ago. The second is that $100
oil a barrel of oil is not the same
thing as $100 in 2022, let alone 2011.
And I'll remind you we were there in
2011. We had a ton of inflation since
then. And then finally, the the world's
largest economy is a gigantic energy
superpower. You shouldn't forget that.
Well, this all comes along with the
often pushback against the bears that
the technology story is strong and that
the US is the epicenter of a lot of it,
but the tech story hasn't been working.
And that raises a a real problem for
people who are banking on the AI
investment structure. I mean, how solid
is that, especially in light of
tightening financial conditions in the
face of this oil shock?
that the AI capex cycle is a cyclical. I
agree with you, Lisa. It's not been
working for the last 4 to 6 weeks
because we have all been like a deer in
headlights caught when it comes to Iran.
And that's happened before. 2023, as we
were going under for 6 straight weeks,
the only thing you and I were checking
was a regional bank ETF. Tiny, but you
know, we shouldn't have the bond market
felt like the Fed would cut 100 basis
points that year. Remember how many
times the Fed cut? Zero. We grew at
almost 3% Q4 over Q4, just effortlessly
shrugged it off. So, there tends to be a
tendency to extrapolate. What I know are
the numbers. I know Satya coming out and
saying that the cloud computing backlog
in Q4 was 368 billion. I know that
Google Cloud is going up 50%
year-over-year and Pichai is still
telling us that their backlog is 240
billion. Those are real numbers. You
can't wish them away. Could you have
$150 oil or $200 oil and still have your
outlook? No, then I'm just wrong. I
mean, if if we are here in 2 months
that's where the physical market is. But
you are supposed to look the forwards
are the collective cleanest indicator
unless you believe that there's this
gigantic conspiracy, right? Where every
government sitting around the world is
going paying futures down hard hard
hard.
Yeah, yeah, but see that you know, Stan
Druckenmiller, his his first mentor had
this phrase, 60 million Frenchmen cannot
be wrong, which is, you know, I'm
assuming the guy was French. But the
point was that the base case tends to be
true 80 to 90% of the time. Markets do a
poor job pricing in a tail for obvious
reasons. Yeah. But in general, it
doesn't pay to be a contrarian and at
this point I think things are nowhere
near as bad as as as as people think,
which is why the equity market doesn't
be is down only 7 to 8% from from its
all-time and that's not a big move. This
was, at risk of offending a lot of
people this week, my favorite
conversation this week. Thanks for being
here, sir. Thank you.
Thank you. You tell him. You tell him.
Achal Agarwal there at Barclays. Thank
you, sir. Coming up on Monday, it's
going to be another long weekend.
Monday, of course, starts Sunday
evening. Look out for the coverage out
of Asia on Sunday evening. Coming up on
Monday, Lori Calvasina of RBC, Helima
Croft of Barclays on that equity call,
Bob McNally of Rapidan Energy, Austin of
Wells Fargo. From New York City this
morning, good morning. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.