TITLE: Fears of Helium Supply Crunch Hit Asian Chipmakers | Bloomberg: The China Show 3/13/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5663  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-13T06:27:17+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pb-Ybf2HuyI
SHA256: 53bc4b0172cdb61d234cd46c3fbec092ca16e6ee4595efc8db7d42c54717bb46

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] silver lining that is Friday 410 to 1%
  [16%] uh prices there will be like a 16% jump
  [3%] down close to 3%. We're mostly lower on
  [2026] 2026.
  [6%] one thing to watch stock down some 6%
  [2022] first time since 2022, actually settled
  [65%] oil price 65% to the upside year today.
  [80%] about just an 80% probability of a full
  [5%] We are up another 5% now for futures
  [1997] emergency tool not used since 1997 amid
  [15%] seeing about 15% of its oil and gas
  [20%] increasing at 20% uh as a blast count
  [2000] have about about 2,000 megawatt to come
  [2025] this seems to be 2025 a year of falling
  [8000] we are having 8,000 units uh in nine
  [2027] 2027 for that next Fed rate cut as well.
  [75%] looking at about a 75% probability
  [6.5] profit as well. So it rose to 6.5
  [85000] first quarter at 85,000 to 90,000.
  [90000] first quarter at 85,000 to 90,000.
  [25600] just below that 25,600 level here. So,
  [2%] Samsung lower by close to 2% here. Some
  [2008] to 2008.
  [62%] especially when they're up 62% on the
  [6.3%] bit drop here. We're down 6.3%. This is
  [100%] almost 100%. Representing demand of the
  [8%] which record about 8% growth and our
  [2020] 10 billion not too long ago. Since 2020,
  [2023] &gt;&gt; Yeah. So we we at 2023 we bring uh Saudi
  [7709] times 7709. So the AOM is surpass 20

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Happy Friday. It's 9:00 a.m. in
Shanghai, Shenzhen, and here in Hong
Kong, you're watching the China Show.
I'm Ivon Man with David and Glass.
open of markets uh in greater China.
Let's get to your top stories today.
Asian stocks and bonds are under
pressure as this renewed spike in oil
prices, stoking fears the war uh in Iran
will further strain energy supplies and
also fuel inflation. Iran's new supreme
leader says the straight of hormuz will
remain effectively shut as President
Trump shrugs off rising crude prices.
countries are dealing with this massive
disruption in fuel supply. The
Philippines energy secretary joins us
exclusively this hour.
threatens the supply of helium needed
for chip production, potentially
deepening a crunch.
Okay. Uh, as we wrap up what has been a
pretty volatile week, we're still
talking about Brent, uh, around the
$100, you know, level and certainly
there's going to be a lot of questions
because it seems like you're still
seeing defiance from both sides of the
US as well as Iran here. the Supreme
Leader, the new one, really coming up
with his first public comments and
basically saying straight up horm will
remain shut.
There's no sign of an obvious or in
public offramp. U markets are reacting
to that by I think when you had the
close on Brent yesterday for the very
first time since 2022, actually settled
above a 100 bucks. So, we're looking at
how that's trading and of course that's
really furthered inflation expectations
and it's erased basically all the gains
we've seen in global equities and global
bonds year to date.
possibility of Fed rate cuts. That's
that seems to be priced out in in this
market here, right? And some are even
saying you might have to wait till mid
2027 for that next Fed rate cut as well.
So certainly that's what's ruling the
bond market for sure. It's not just
really about the inflation concerns uh
and really whether the Fed uh can
actually cut this year there. You also
now start to have an element of how
they're going to fund this war, right?
We might need to see more issuance in
the Treasury market for them to continue
on this prolonged conflict.
and that spike to about the highest in
about seven or eight months really is
indicative of both supply constraints,
supply issues, and also uh inflation
expectations. Let's start things off
here with where we are as far as Brent
is concerned. West Texas, Shanghai oil
and gold, which by the way has rem, you
know, you've removed now the rate cut
support coming through in gold prices.
And effectively, you're not getting this
bid across the gold prices, which
normally would be the case on times like
this. Gold uh well, Brent is still above
100 bucks. New York crude is at about 95
96. Shanghai crude, of course, you add
freight cost and of course, you do get
to where you are in price there. Uh the
dollar story is one where you have a
stronger dollar. You have rate cuts now
being priced out. I think we're now
looking at about a 75% probability
uh of even just one rate cut before the
end of this year and a two-year yield
where it is two-year break evens. I
should also mention that to highest in
about a year or so. Uh really indicative
of that of that specific story. Now, the
new iteration as it pertains to equity
markets is really the helium story and
TSMC. And who would have thought helium
would be another catalyst that pops the
AI bubble or AI balloon if you want to
use that analogy. Um right now of course
uh you know a lot of these chipmakers
effectively need uh that specific energy
source and a lot of that comes from
Qatar and the fact that you're not
getting it currently right now is
another reasons are selling off. The
silver lining that is Friday 410 to 1%
to the upside on S&amp;P futures. Msei China
is still holding up 4 days into the
week. So, we are currently still set for
a weekly close higher. Let's see, of
course, how we managed last session of
of of of the week. Uh bond auctions
today to tell you about two bond
auctions specifically total 330 I think
it's one and also two-year bond auctions
in China this Friday.
bromine. These are some of the names
that we're learning here this morning
about uh on this whole semiconductor
supply chain. I think BIA had a a very
good call about maybe you know take a
look at some of these North Asian
economies they probably only have a few
months of supply and helium is not
something that can easily be replaced as
well. So Qatar now that has been
effectively shut that's really a massive
hit really on what already has been a
massive supply crunch.
uh and we're two weeks into two week
we're barely halfway into March and the
oil price 65% to the upside year today.
really does this to you. Okay. Um let's
let's get into this and this digging
them their heels deeper into their
respective camps here.
the straight of Hormuz should remain
shut and that tan will open other fronts
in the war if US and Israeli attacks
continue. President Trump though has
shrugged off oil concerns and says
preventing Iran from owning nuclear
weapons is more important.
very rapidly. It's uh doing very well.
Our military is unsurpassed. There's
never been anything like it. Nobody's
ever seen anything like it. They really
are a a nation of terror and hate and
they're paying a big price right now.
editor. Um and it seems like both sides
are not backing down as as of yet.
particularly look at some of these
statements coming out of the new supreme
leader in Iran. remember the son of the
old leader Ali Kmani. Um I mean he's
already um sort of perceived as more of
a hardliner even than his father was. Um
and you have some really really you know
some really really aggressive statements
here that indicate that they know that
um the straight of Hermuz is pretty much
a massive point of leverage uh in this
entire conflict. I mean it's certainly
what uh oil markets are paying attention
to when it comes to um you know whether
or not ships can actually transit
through there. Um and so a lot of these
comments about um not backing down
really I think kind of underscore the
fact that um you know this does seem to
be um you know something that could
potentially turn into a prolonged
campaign. Obviously you've got Trump on
the other side of this saying that um
you know he it he doesn't necessarily
care about what he perceives as maybe a
temporary uh you know a surge in the
price of oil if it means um you know
sort of toppling this regime preventing
Iran from gaining nuclear weapons. But
obviously um really really difficult to
see that right now or at least to kind
of understand where this uncertainty
might end when you've got this kind of
rhetoric coming out of both sides.
course is part of that uh the dynamic
here. I think it was a week ago uh we
heard from the Iranians and they
apologized to their neighbors for you
know some of the projectiles that were
sent that way. They said you know if
anything comes from you then we have to
respond. What is the latest in as far as
this inter sort of between Iran and its
neighbors and the attacks we're seeing
because that goes into the sort of
energy conversation right now?
think um you know obviously you're kind
of continuing to see some of these
military strikes play out over the
course of this week. Um but I do
actually think one of the interesting
things that came out of um you know at
least the Israeli side of things is
Netanyahu um you know is also pointing
to the fact that it's really difficult
to see any kind of um you know regime
shift um that those are things that um I
think he said um come from within. Uh so
you've got um you know even that
acknowledgement at least coming from
from Netanyahu that this is a really
really difficult situation to see any
……（中部抽样）……
kind of sort of widespread regime change
that um, you know, there's there's not a
be able to cut interest rates. We have a
manager at Brandy Wine Global. Tracy,
conflict going on inflation is uh
uh like still relatively complacent. Um
uh waiting for this um uh further
the curve will probably still uh bear
bond market is is fascinating to us.
the best strategies now Tracy?
base case for a for a cut. There's a
fertilizer um it's probably more
One is this um oil oil oil risk. Um the
the AI investment will become higher as
Uh Tracy, you laid it out uh what's
uh speaking of the uh earnings and
morning.
talked about that u for obvious reasons
you talk about when it comes to LG, and
crunch and blur intelligence says when
think what's important to emphasize is
process. What you also need to know,
is manufactured or how we get helium and
process for helium to to to come about.
SKHX and Samsung that are putting their
they've got stockpiles that can last
got them to last a few months.
yes, the first ever uh annual rather
2026.
it but that's the level to watch on the
what it could have uh globally. So you
They're talking about deliveries for the
Good Friday morning from the Asia
really next year, next week virtually, I
today. It's kind of the same story that
really cut this year. Not seeing too
the tech space is doing. Obviously,
There was this report according to our
MTR which we need to look into as well.
helium and bromine. Um but yes, out of
uh, is a clear enough signal that, you
helping that resiliency along ownership
stood out to you from the Chinese market
billion barrels and you know they also
open claw. Do you think that actually
previously fairly passive in their AI
adoption of these agents
of companies that are eager to try all
uh sensitive areas like banks and
talked about certain government agencies
trying to reach the critical mass of
Bloomberg intelligence. All right,
striking Kabul and other provinces.
straight of Hormuz and what this new
what Asian economies can do, right? You
is moving to impose a fuel price cap for
output being curtailed by the war. The
could help lower prices for consumers
structured to deal with it. Of course,
course where it's actually showed up in
a few minutes ago was the US Treasury
certainly that's going to be one thing.
markets. U Mr. Kuchi's talking about
given when you if you recall the initial
mandates uh and within its framework of
the impact is really on the uh the the
uh hopefully with the interventions that
if we don't do interventions. Now um on
the indigenous gas that we have coal
expecting a jump in April and to clarify
we what we computed based on last week's
of contingency plans that that the
pushing more for more indigenous because
even the supply is not. So I think it's
now, does it seem does it seem that more
that we should have uh in general it
issues uh that affects the our our
recent the president recently um uh
side the intervention the of of uh the
Middle East. Can you give us an update
uncertainty and uh there's not much
structural change not only in the
feeling that chill once again across
this means when it comes to chip makers
producer which is Qatar has run into of
half%. The biggest single day drop in
cost really leading things lower here
supply to really deal with this sort of
the technology and the production
Uh the currency market uh this is really
and is it now time to in fact increase
in some ways given that we are
joins us from Singapore. Uh Lanting, I
scrambling to really analyze how much
it's not a major concern. And aside from
higher chemical costs because you know
are you hearing anything new along those
leverage its huge uh uh chat app such as
AI supply chain is of course what
discussed over the weekend will likely
lot on the agenda. Of course, yesterday
want to see. They want to maintain that
soybeans in the last 3 months of last
to the United States. Their beans are
course, is Taiwan. This couldn't have
indefinitely, whether the US will cancel
later this hour. This is the China show.
here. Uh tell us a little bit more what
Securities, uh and also Guian did say
ongoing. So what they've said is that uh
information will come out as the
we're going to get the earnings and
market are now having to deal with
this really just adds to of course those
US is still kind of the largest helium
having when this specific news broke on
literally offline as as we speak and the
of the big risk here. The next thing for
is also calling for an extra budget to
American ships be used to transport
country does expect uh prices of
prices. There will be like a 16% jump on
in which uh it could be a major problem
other fossils like malampaya which is
of contingency plans that that the
pushing more for more indigenous because
even the supply is not. So I think it's
hub. Right on that very topic right
substantially higher uh even just
forced to talk about and address how the
we're looking at of course the US right
across the Asia Pacific are quite
really is something that is starting to
in mind BOJ does meet next week. We'll
out uh as base case. Easing is still
Middle East and again there is no sign
now. Uh, we are still seeing a quite a
disappointed by these news. Uh overall,
and those alone accounted for 700
16%. The domestic is almost fat. So we
be like this year but what is the
we in fact seeing some uh in some pocket
be, you know, last year thinking about
the public. So I think the public can be
closely. M do you have initial estimates
concerned about you know the government
now
to be one of the growth and success
year um more near-term in the pipeline
moment but suffice to say the model of
already launched a series of initiatives
starting to see the beginnings of that.
commercial portfolio. So for us is
uh we are actually running the rest of
the incumbent but the contract is up for
commercial revenue uh uh station
Jenny, thank you so much for taking
case if you're curious, we have a bit of
the midst of an ETF boom. Over the past
to the CEO, what it feels like to be on
into the spotlight the last two weeks
technology and recently you said um
that's the case, um obviously, you know,
headache a big headache.
assets and uh and afterwards it it
……（接近结尾）……
But we after these two weeks, we see a
lot of people come back to Hong Kong and
a lot of people are talking about, you
know, uh um move their assets uh to Hong
Kong again. I think from that point of
view, it's u uh it's it's a game for
Hong Kong. But from from the whole uh
industry point of view, we still hope
like the situation can be cooled down
and uh you know, everybody can go back
to business
again.
do you have aspirations in terms of
what's the target aum or otherwise or
something else does it affect how you
strategize look at how you price your
products
have uh support from a lot of people and
especially from my my my my co-workers
in SOP we have been waiting for this
moment for for many years I would say
and right now um you know we are we
managing 59 ETFs in the town we are the
deepest and the wiest uh ETF uh offer in
in this town and also uh like the uh we
introduce a lot of uh innovative
products to the market. We bring SK
highex and hands uh uh uh and and
Samsung electronic two times leverage
immerse single star to the town and um
people say it's like a super cycle for
the AI memory chips. Uh SK Hinx and
Samsung will be definitely the one and
you know Korean market they are ID
market. It's not easy to access. So in
order to participate or or or get the
investment chance, you need to bring
some uh interesting products uh you know
to your spart and uh we did it last year
and um the market definitely reward us
by by you know a lot of cash inflow into
this products.
times 7709. So the AOM is surpass 20
billion Hong Kong dollar. It's it it is
you know one of I think the most uh fast
growth ETF in SEO's history and also
this one is also globally the top three
uh AUM ETF as well. So you can see that
I think from from strategy wise uh COP
will definitely will do more innovation
products and uh also you know um Hong
Kong and mainland China in this region.
Uh I would say the whole society goes to
the like aging society and to serve like
aging wealth people. We will do a more a
little bit more about like a fixed
income plus or incomes plus uh products
like a cover call something like that.
Cover core probably is not familiar with
a lot of people but this year we
introduced or last year we introduced
of these Korea single stock. These are
all leveraged ETFs and obviously there
is a compounding effect. We were talking
to you know the CEO of direction just
this week about
could be quite
there needs to be more regulatory sort
of regulations around these sort of
complex products and how is CSOP
preparing for it?
question. So uh for those single sty
because it's daily rebalanced products
you will have a lot of compounding
effect on that. So definitely we needs
quite a lot of uh client educations and
also uh you know uh regulations uh
around that products to protect the best
interest of clients and I think also
from the regulatory point of view is
like you if you try to have people
introduce this kind of product on the
market you definitely will test them
whether they have the knowledge or have
the they have the capability to handling
this kind of uh uh uh complex products
little bit uh different from other
market because I I say it's ID market.
So even for institutions is very
difficult to to to get into there and so
for for for retail investors there no
way. So that that that gives us ultimate
question. So whether is two times too
high for them.
you. Thank you so much for kicking off
of course this segment for us. Uh that
was Ding Chen, their CSOP asset
management CEO joining us here. You can
tune in to ETF IQ Asia every Friday on
the China show. We're bringing you more
analysis and conversations with top
market players and newsmakers. This is
right. Uh just before we wrap up our
shows, lots more of course as far as the
the trading day is concerned. A look at
the hanging index. We're coming off
lows. Last hour of the morning session
is just ahead. That's it from us here on
the China show today and this week. We
will see you all on Monday.