TITLE: Maximizing Luck: Masters in Business with Judd Kessler
CHANNEL: Masters in Business
DURATION_S: 4441  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-28T09:00:19+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JXfriI-i4-I
SHA256: fb73239ea8d12c6dda96d2d696cd513e93e994e30a4539927d8939d5fa36c072

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [30%] to resell them, was getting 30% of the
  [100000] the numbers. There are 100,000 Americans
  [10%] 10% markup or something like that. So,
  [10000] 25,000 people? At least the first 10,000
  [22%] the population. They were 22% of the
  [1901] you know, that was California in 1901
  [2021] the Vernon Smith Scholar Prize in 2021.
  [2010] in the 2010s. And I'm like, am I just
  [1000] get 10 entries or 100 entries or 1,000
  [25000] 25,000 people? At least the first 10,000
  [11%] time, African Americans made up 11% of
  [90%] to read of a that 100,000, 90% are
  [1%] basically 1%
  [20%] for the next one." 20% of the
  [90000] 90,000 folks waiting for the organ. And
  [15000] Arizona, which in 1901 was 10 or 15,000
  [1.50] very famously has the $1.50 hot dog for
  [17%] just read 17% drop in international

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
I'm Barry Ritholtz. You're listening to
Masters in Business on Bloomberg Radio.
My extra special guest today is
Professor Judd Kessler. He is the Howard
Marks Professor at the Wharton School at
the University of Pennsylvania. He has
been awarded the Vernon L. Smith [music]
Ascending Scholar Prize. His new book,
Lucky by Design: The Hidden Economics
You Need to Get More of What You Want,
is out now.
Thanks so much for having me. So, I
found the book to be really fascinating
look at um
market design, which is an area that we
don't usually think about. We'll talk
about the book in a few moments. I want
to start with your background.
Bachelor's, master's, and PhD from
Harvard, but that wasn't enough. You get
a master's in philosophy from Cambridge.
What what was the career plan? So, the
career plan was to go to college and
then find a career not in academia. That
was not something that I even thought of
as an option. I was an econ major. I
thought I'd be a consultant. I accepted
a Bain New York offer to take after
graduation. But, senior year of college,
I wrote a thesis under a supervisor
named Alvin Roth. And I loved it. It was
my first experience doing research and I
thought, this is
really fun. I'm on the cutting edge of
this topic that I chose that interests
me.
And so, that made me think, all right,
maybe I should give it a shot. So, that
was the trip to Cambridge, England was
me doing an MPhil in economics to see,
you know, is this something that I might
want to pursue as a career?
And I didn't love the pedagogy in
England. So, I like the courses I wasn't
enjoying, but every day I'd come home
and think, oh, there's some research
questions that that lecture prompted.
And I realized, oh, the research is
keeping me engaged in this program even
though I don't love the coursework. I
probably should be doing this full-time.
senior year that led you to heading to
England?
experimental economist. Most of my Not
all of it, but most of my research is
experimental, meaning undergrads are
coming into the lab playing a game I've
designed or uh we're doing some
experimentation in the field where
people are going about their lives. They
don't realize that half of them are
getting one version of an experience and
half are getting the other and we're
seeing what the effect is. So, my
undergrad thesis was trying to
understand how pairs of people could
contribute to public goods, to things
that benefited both of them. And I
learned about, you know, everything that
I could learn about public good
provision. And I varied both the
structure of the game and how the
benefits of the public good were split
across people. And this uh was something
that had never been done before. And my
advisor, Al, was very encouraging,
enthusiastic, funded the research study.
And
it was, you know, the first I I I had
this experience of looking at the data
and thinking, this is the
This is the first I'm the first person
I'm on the frontier. I'm I'm never I'm
never going to be uh
an astronaut, but I'm on the frontier
here exploring the answer to this
question that interests me. Uh I'm
looking at the data and discovering the
answer. So, this sounds like it's a
cross-section of game theory and
behavioral economics. Fair fair
description?
paper, you know, I I've since become an
academic and I've been writing research
papers for a long time. This one was
never published.
and even into my 30s, I didn't really
know how to motivate it. I didn't know
what it was about. Uh you know, at a
deep level. I knew what I had done and I
knew that it was new and different. Uh
but I finally cracked the code in my
late 30s uh because what I had studied,
unbeknownst to me, was how couples
allocate effort to construct
uh public goods in their household. So,
the Does that mean who cooks, who
cleans, who gets the kids, who basically
pays the bills? Is it just that simple?
each put in some effort. Sometimes the
production is split evenly between the
two and sometimes it's split unevenly.
So, one person gets more of the output
and some and the other person gets less.
And what I found was that in some
structures where we each have to match
each other's contribution to
generate an output uh then the
inequality didn't matter.
Pairs of people, these are random
strangers, uh they're able to contribute
at high levels. It's when we're
contributing to the public good and one
of us can cut back and kind of free ride
off of the other one. When we split it
equally, we're able to sustain with the
pair, you know, high levels of
contribution.
But, when we're split unequally and one
of us can free ride off each other the
contribution collapses.
for divorce. It
able to later understand what I had
studied in in my 20s was those are the
situations where, you know, my wife and
I have conflicts. When we both need to
contribute for the public good to be
provided, like we both have to be
diligent with bedtimes with our kids.
Because if one of us slips, then the
kids' schedule will slip.
care more about that or my wife. We kind
of both realize we have to be at the
same level or or we both lose. Where
Where does it um sort of
Where does that gap between effort uh
show? How does that manifest?
the kids eating vegetables.
know, if my wife fed
uh the the health healthful eating. One
of us might care more than the other.
And in that case, you know, if my wife
cares more and I free ride off of her,
she fed them a healthy lunch, say,
yesterday.
Uh and then I can feed them a less
healthy dinner when it's my turn. That's
where the recipe for disaster is.
co-missions? What about doing things
positively where one of you might slip?
How does that manifest?
thinking of are like, are we giving them
too much screen time? Oh, I guess we
could it could be uh reading them books
at night, you know? I mean, so we both
care a lot about this, so we'll we'll do
it. But, if, you know, if one of us
cared more, that would be a recipe for
disaster because that person would read
to the kids and the other person would
say, you know what? Like uh you got read
to last night, I won't do it. Right? And
that's when the the trouble Yeah, that's
when trouble starts. So, I that was my
my first academic research was exploring
those kinds of dynamics in two-person
games. How do you go from that to
studying market design? So, this was uh
Alvin Roth, the the mentor that I
mentioned. He was my undergrad thesis
advisor and when I was getting my PhD, I
committed a kind of sin of academic sin,
which is you're not supposed to go back
to the institution you did your
undergrad degree to get your PhD.
But, I wanted to work with Al. So, I
kind of I cheated a little bit. I I went
back to Harvard, but I it was
technically a Harvard Business School
PhD joint with the econ department. So,
I pretended, oh, I'm getting a different
angle on this.
being at the business school helped me
transition to my current job as a
Wharton professor.
But, I went back to work with Al and he
was doing both. He was doing
experimental work and he was doing
market design work. And I had gotten
exposure to both of
early PhD student. And the
research that kind of transitioned me
was on organ donation and organ
allocation. The book has some
fascinating data points on that. We'll
talk about that in a bit. I want to stay
with your background. You end up winning
the Vernon Smith Scholar Prize in 2021.
What work was that for? So, that was for
a line of work starting with this organ
allocation work because that was
uh
both a public good study like I
described in the the earlier work
um and policy relevant. And so, the
Vernon Smith Prize is for somebody who's
contributed with experimental research
in a bunch of areas. And I had, you
know, I'd done that. I'd done that in
organ allocation. I'd done that in
course course allocation. I had done
work on summer youth employment. But,
kind of always with this experimental
……（中部抽样）……
lens to try to understand, you know,
um sometimes it's people paying more to
luck. This is recognizing all of these
the stock market where you're paying a
who gets access to the scarce resource.
undergrads or MBA students or
It's scarce. There is
hot restaurant. You want to get a ticket
pay, but there's also some other ordeal
transplant. These are environments where
everyday life frictions. You don't
have on a regular basis
daughter's elementary school, this is
you know, June 12th at 10:00 a.m. we're
where my heart races faster than, you
strategies here.
the rest of the participants are playing
the right strategy for that. Now, first
right? When when I get the email and it
demanded,
right, by 10:01 or 10:02 the good stuff
reading that and using your strategy
strategy is you
birthday to try to register, I knew it
And the page reloads and that is also
7:30. And that's the kind of situation
what you wanted all along, right?
difference, post pandemic, my wife likes
no, no one wants to have dinner 10:00
really just the way allocation
operate. There is a set of rules that
might rank your preferences over things
they don't really realize they're doing
they think, "Oh man, that person got
waiting list. So I have to, you know,
are based entirely on chance,
few hours before showtime.
you.
years you intend to lose because
Or maybe you win the lottery
Harvard and Cambridge. You teach at
admission process? What's what's driving
institution. I maybe I should say we as
colleges who that are deciding, "Who am
So I think the the thing that people
is
When I was applying to college, that
half or two-thirds of the people you
Penn, where my employer, early decision,
to one school early action. And so it
going to we're we like the idea that you
But all of a sudden then it becomes a
reservation at the hot restaurant, or do
out of reach that even if you apply
get in. But if you didn't apply early,
people who went to your high school in
Let's talk about the three E's. You
efficiency, ease, and equity. Equity is
Efficiency is about making sure that
that scarce resource to that that
where price is doing all the work is
prices. So let's let's talk a little bit
why do these
maximizer, but they don't do that.
see a line around the block for a
when the line might be a little shorter.
I Her fans are famously loyal, and she
reason she might not charge very high
know, most of her fans
seats. The average ticket price was, you
Sh- It might also be that those folks
the
one of the super interesting things
that the market is
that that she, in this case, wants to
Olympics where there were seats that
10% markup or something like that. So,
Uh first come, first serve races is the
them
which is the the
They get hefty fees. I bought tickets
the expression um
it changes the dynamics there a lot.
meaning
tickets through my phone, right, it can
of this that they uh rolled out at some
anybody if they have a physical ticket
it's only 10%.
the fastest bots are still going to be
who are our fan base.
thought were were real folks rather than
systems ground to a halt and they
computer for hours. It's almost as
see her perform at, which sections you'd
the market way easier. You could run you
I'm stuck. If I have to return if I
who said, "Rather than pay the markup in
the market will bear. They don't add
slightly before my time, but certainly
2x Yep.
lottery, which was introduced
age were going to be sent to Vietnam.
circumvent what would have been
and I learned a lot more than I knew
you could use to get out of service, but
enough to remember this and my father's
the US out of Southeast Asia." Because
to get out,
organ donation and what those rules look
kidney failure.
it and then it it gets handed off to
wait for an extended period of time.
addition to all the the
covering it. You know, Medicare big
donated kidneys are just thrown away.
the the organ donor and the recipient.
be an organ I take or not?
have this testing getting done and folks
so, you know, if the organ's not great
The theory being, "Hey, if everybody
nice feature of being a public good. If
they're making
it less scarce. And as you said, they
in so far as, you know, 50 years later
to to be a donor so that you can have
they had they announced it and and they
priority. That would totally undermine
the to have a a change in the allocation
basically anything we can do to make
religious reasons and other, but uh is
I should pause and say we don't we can't
but in the in the countries that use
opt-out.
to do that. And so, if you pass away,
only ones who are left around to sue the
that surprised you most about market
as market designers,
which lots of people want. They want to
used to allocate water from the Colorado
where they diverted water from the river
people, but's now a million and a half
know centuries ago. Yeah, century ago.
A meeting that I put on my calendar, you
of these recurring meetings, right? It
Street Journal piece
when we look at price controls, how do
Costco hot dogs, so I can see the
affordable housing lottery. So, this is
folks are only expected to spend 30% of
6 million applicants for about 10,000
But then there's all these
there's no way for us to switch, right?
be able to kind of keep paying that low
I I can see why folks are eager to do
since the
want to bring costs down, you have to
the logical next step is that the ticket
the gains that we want or
which Broadway show he goes to,
was reading this, I I thought about
know about. We made other reservations
forget it. And the person before me was
I love that.
question was was that behavioral hack.
think about the market rules, think
succeed in markets where other people
is Alvin Roth. So, he
already.
intimidated, I felt a lot of place.
it goes." And he signed the form, and
reading right now? So, there This is a
step on his toes as as
to regular folks. So, I recommend my
mean, I've I've heard about everything
but the norms at home about how time is,
earn more than their male partners will
display. Huh, really? You know, I love
one of the things that I talk about in
would be part of that, right? Cuz then
……（接近结尾）……
first time. And
it is you know, I'll say so I'll make
some reference to something and my kids
will be like, "What are you talking
about?" And then I'll pull up the
YouTube clip. I'll show it to them and
then they'll be like, "Oh, can you know,
can we watch that episode?" So that has
been phenomenal. So my favorite, you
know, rewatches rewatch rewatches I
don't I don't know how to say that.
rewatch The Simpsons with my kids and
then you know, enjoying my own
on my own the new episodes before I
decide whether they're appropriate for
my kids or not.
Um our final two questions, what sort of
advice would you give to a recent
college grad interested in a career in
either
um market design or economics or
academia? Yeah, so academia, there is a
path forward for folks who have just
graduated college and are thinking about
this. And that is to get some experience
doing research to see if you like it
because the
market for
tenure-track academic positions is
getting tightened. We're feeling the
political winds as well as other things
have kind of Demographically, there's
slightly smaller admission classes and I
just read 17% drop in international
students. That's a big number. For a lot
of the universities that have big PhD
programs, the budgets for things like
the PhD program will depend on the
revenue streams and foreign students
coming for undergrad or for master's
degrees is a big revenue source for a
lot of institutions. So all of that is
to say that academia remains a great
option for folks who are interested in
it, but it's getting harder and harder.
Um but if folks are interested getting
and they have not yet done it, they may
have done it in undergrad, getting
exposure to the research experience.
There are our pre-doctoral programs for
folks who work with
academic researchers on their projects
and kind of get a sense of what is
actually like. Um there are master's
programs that folks can participate in
to see what the coursework is like. Um
so that is definitely, you know, one way
to go.
There are kids who start earlier, who
start in college, but I I was not one of
them, right? I told the story about
senior year kind of realizing, "Oh, I
want to do academia." So I hadn't done
any research assistant work after I
graduated. But that is that was the next
step for me was saying, "Okay, I want to
see what this is like." Uh so it is a is
a path to do, but but you should only do
it if you really want to have a job that
only someone with a PhD can have because
there are a lot of great jobs out there
for folks interested in these topics, uh
but you know, not in academia. So final
question, what do you know about the
world of market designs and economics or
even academia that would have been
useful 20-plus years ago when you were
first getting started? Yeah, I think
something I've recently developed in
part researching for the book is just
how diverse
the hidden markets are that we
participate in every day. As a
young economist being trained in how
markets worked, I thought basically
exclusively about prices and the price
mechanisms. That that was how
I was taught, that those were the
markets I looked at. And it's only
recently that I've realized markets are
much broader than that. And thinking
through the rules of those markets, how
we could design them better
uh so that, you know, they're more
equitable and efficient and easy for
participants. I I think there's a lot of
gains for us to have as a society. So
I'm excited to be working on it for the
next 20 years, but if I if I could go
back 20 years and say, "Hey, maybe focus
on these markets a little bit more
because
there's a lot of low-hanging fruit where
we could be making things better for
everybody." Uh you know, I I I wish I
knew that and I I want others to kind of
look at these markets and say, "Yeah,
this could be better." Fascinating.
Professor, really enjoyed the
conversation. Uh we have been speaking
with Judd Kessler, [music] uh professor
of behavioral economics and market
design at Wharton at the University of
Pennsylvania and author of the new book
Lucky by Design, The Hidden Economics
You Need to Get More of What You Want.
I'm Barry Ritholtz. You've been
listening to Masters in Business on
Bloomberg Radio.