TITLE: Stanford AI Expert: 71% of People Won't Survive the AI Shift — Here's the 30-Minute Fix
CHANNEL: Silicon Valley Girl Podcast
DURATION_S: 2119  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-05T13:00:25+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gk0n0FjeKj8
SHA256: 696bc2eb87e75260fba51d5f6eadd43f388a48a036f5da5b8a339a029d527b3f

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [50%] good, but actually maybe 50% better for
  [2026] 2026? Learn the foundations of AI,
  [0.1%] But to be in the top 0.1% you will have
  [0.1] percent. But to be in the top 0.1
  [2014] started in 2014, 2015. So we're already
  [2015] started in 2014, 2015. So we're already
  [71%] Absolutely. And and your data shows 71%
  [100%] I mean, I'd say 100% agency is a durable
  [5%] study said only 5% of agents work in
  [10%] week non-stop, you're in the top 10%.
  [1%] Focus on a month, you're in the top 1%.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
How often do you use AI? If it's not
daily, I think you're generally behind.
That's Kian Katanforoush, Stanford AI
professor who built one of the world's
top AI education platforms with Andrew
Ng. Now, through his company, he's
tested over a million people on their AI
skills, and today he has a step-by-step
plan so you don't fall behind. What are
the three moves everyone should make in
2026? Learn the foundations of AI,
assess yourself to make sure you're
ready, build the habits of learning. If
you focus on one thing for a day, you
probably are already in the top X
percent of the world. For a week
non-stop, you're in the top 10 percent.
Focus on a month, you're in the top 1
percent. But to be in the top 0.1
percent, you will have to
Hello everyone. Welcome back to Silicon
Valley Girl in Davos. Kian, let's start
with your big idea. 2026 is the year of
humans, but also we're getting a
completely different narrative, you
know, a new model every week, replacing
jobs. How do you think we should focus
on humans right now, and what is the
shift?
I think the shift that is happening is
uh
broadly due to the fact that people
generally overestimate
the impact of technology on the short
term and uh underestimate what the
technology can do on the long term.
Um if you look at all the reports from
from foundation model labs, uh you know,
OpenAI, Anthropic, and others, uh
there's a lot of task-level reports.
Like AI is good at task A, task B, task
C is getting automated. And actually,
going from a task to some human's job
changing
with a job usually being made up
hundreds of tasks, is not that simple.
It can take decades. And every almost
every prediction that I've seen since
the launch of ChatGPT of X Y Z job is
going away has not happened. You know,
the famous one is the radiologist will
go away and the drivers will go away and
then you see this meme of radiologists
driving to work in their in their car.
You mentioned drivers. Do you have an
estimate for example because if you go
in San Francisco, it's almost Waymos are
almost everywhere. I don't really see
old older taxis.
So we see the replacement happening, but
how soon do you think it's going to
happen for drivers for example? Yeah.
Well, you look like you know the the
rise of you know Waymo
Cruise all these companies in the
self-driving space, you know, it really
started in 2014, 2015. So we're already
11 years into them [clears throat]
having hired tons of engineers to build
that problem. So even autonomous driving
has been a decade of full-on research
with people working so hard.
So you know, why wouldn't it be the same
for the rest? I think like maybe in the
next decade we're going to start, you
know, seeing less voice actors, less
translators. Maybe customer support is
going to completely change. I agree
fully with that. I just think people
thought it will happen within 6 months.
Yeah. And it hasn't. Yeah. So we're safe
for now. At least like for the next 5
years. Generally, I think safe in in a
career comes down to learning velocity.
It turns out to
can you reinvent yourself? Yeah. You
know, the the web has this metric called
the half-life of skill that is going
down meaning on average a skill is not
useful that long. It's 2 years in tech
or AI.
And so you have to refresh yourself and
that's what makes you safe ultimately.
Absolutely. And and your data shows 71%
of people misjudge their AI skill level.
Can you give us some benchmarks? So what
is an AI proficient person? What does it
his day-to-day look like? Does he start
with like chatting with his AI or is it
you know, not writing emails by yourself
or having AI manage his schedule? Yeah,
I tried to separate adoption of AI and
proficiency. So I'll give you an
example. Adoption is
is like you use AI every day and I use
it every week. You're a better adopter
than I am.
But turns out that if we watch you
prompt engineer and me
maybe your prompts are just simple
prompts and when you look at what I'm
doing I'm doing
a variety of techniques. I'm doing zero
shot prompt. I'm doing few shot prompts.
I'm doing a chain of thoughts. I'm doing
a prompt chain that is super complex
that feeds one into another. I'm doing a
retrieval augmented generation system
that I built. My proficiency is higher
than you.
That's the difference between adoption
and proficiency.
like I'm in a a beginner
Okay, if I want to sound like you in 90
days, what should I be doing? So first
if you have 90 days, I would say uh
first we need to establish the
foundations. You take a few foundational
classes. We can recommend some on
deeplearning.ai on other platforms.
There's a lot of content out there
honestly.
Um high quality. Establish the
foundation. Uh you will get to a point
where what will matter the most in AI
because the market is moving so fast is
that you're plugged in the network. So
what I recommend generally is you go to
X, you go to Reddit, you go to some of
the machine learning popular newsletters
and you register to all of these. Can
you recommend like who do you who do you
follow on X for best advice?
Uh well actually if you go on my X and
you look at who I follow, you can follow
the same people. But you know some of
them are here like Andrew Ng is a great
person to follow. Great newsletter
called The Batch. Richard Socher, you
know, Yoshua Bengio. A lot of great AI
scientists that you know, people trust
and actually it allows you to cut
through the noise when there's so much
noise coming. Like I tell you when I was
in grad school,
we would read a lot of paper that come
up in archive, the website that
you know, where papers are often
published. Today there's just so much
that you have to to ways to
differentiate signal from noise.
feed on Instagram, there's this new app
and this company just changed the game
in this market. It like happens every
day. Uh so, okay, we established this. I
follow the right people. What is the
next step? Are there like top three AI
apps that I should be using? Yeah, I
mean, you know, I recommend obviously
working off or testing yourself.
Although it's mostly used in
corporations. Other than that, you know,
deeplearning.ai has a lot of free
content out there. It's really good. You
also find
that the LLMs can help you learn. Like
you can actually prompt the LLMs. But
the bottom line is people don't know
what to ask the LLM. And that's where
the assessment is so important because
at some point you're going to be pretty
good at AI and you're going to sort of
have a wall in front of yourself. Like
what do I do next? Am I actually that
good? Do I know? You know, to give you
an example, at Stanford we have, as you
said, the class on campus with a lot of
students and we have the class on
YouTube ver- same content published on
YouTube with a lot of views, like a lot
of views.
And those students would tell you that
the difference between them and the
Stanford
kids is that um it's not the material,
it's that they don't know if how good
they are. The Stanford students, they
have friends at OpenAI, they have
friends at Meta, they have friends at
Google, they have friends. They know how
good they are compared to the bar. How
how much does it take to get a job
there? But if you're somewhere in the
world with no ecosystem, you're not
plugged in, it's really hard. And so
that's where the assessment is so
important. It can tell you, "Hey,
actually you you thought you you're
pretty pretty good, but that's not the
bar. The bar is actually higher." Top
three questions that you should ask
yourself to kind of understand your
level. How often do you use AI? Mhm. You
know, if it's not daily, I think you're
……（中部抽样）……
generally behind right now.
10 products that use AI that that that
like actually I don't really realize
probably behind. When Kian says that, a
for most teams, it's not a motivation
usually lives in fragments. Cursor in
That's exactly how my team used to work,
another platform, and almost no
server. MCP lets you connect your Miro
central hub where your specs, diagrams,
take shared context, diagrams, docs,
or Cursor has actual context from your
collaborative environment where the
to use AI more seriously at work, but
clicks. If you want to try it yourself,
conversation with Kian.
I think when it comes to work, a lot of
this uh feature that allows you to give
language, and I like to be concise, or I
give to the LLM.
um you know, and at work, you sort of
You even want the custom instruction of
it out. So, the value of the LLM
I'll give you a concrete example. So,
this version of Claud called Claud Code
And across the company, we have things
way of doing a certain thing. Like, here
the color palettes that you can use.
team at the end and say, "Can you review
you don't need any more to talk to a
palette is right?" And they know that
You gain actually so much speed and uh
rather than like every day talk to an
engineer does.
you just deal with your co-workers? So,
getting flatter as an organization,
role. And that didn't used to happen
back close to the machine. Um and I
have this ratio of within a
How many product designers?
to eat two pizzas. Uh if it's more than
eight engineers, one product manager,
probably put a team together with two
to build everything on their own almost
you know, instead of having three big
transcriptions of meetings, which is
interviewing. So there's an AI
and we make sure they adopt it very
AI systems herself. And
conversations I've had. And every
to know." Nice.
someone who's more AI native or my team
by yourself. Mhm. So I think you should
proficient, so it will be easier
who has coded in the past. You know,
We should have done that. Yeah, I think
being here in Davos. Everyone's talking
that in one of your talks. There's some
agency is something that, you know, if
work in customer support, right? You
this line because we're using AI as a
control you, is to have agency.
be useful even 10 years from now. It's
communication.
durable skill. I think
need to know how to code manually. But
errors faster. You can iterate faster.
for technical folks, very technical
reasoning, that can build reasoning
second one that's underrated, forgotten,
massive clusters. It is very
complicated and those are, you know,
at a model, it usually goes through
sometimes pre-training, sometimes
That's why
reinforcement learning methods. When the
And that skill is also very valuable.
Meaning, if you can also do business
being able to use it natively is the
their prompts are still super basic.
words, it used the wrong tone, it
voice, real facts about your background,
posts, I can now write better emails,
description. Go ahead, download those
using it in a proper way. The link is in
So, a few things. I I I would say one,
definitely the hardest I've seen for
COVID.
managing a lot. They're roster managing.
there's a lot of like we want to keep
it was AI?
done keeping the best people and getting
have heard of something else. So, I
native talent. The reason Gen Z has
in hubs. And if you're in the hub as a
When you're outside of the hub, it's
companies are going to figure out how to
think we're going to see more internal
and go to the sales team. Start in the
company is going to grow. The company's
to be slightly smaller, but it's not
don't hire more, you know. Or if someone
coming out of universities. And at the
its value in the next 10 years?
people don't join for the content, they
lose their values. Um
research, blah blah blah, you know. And
be 4-year bachelor's degree, 2-year
market skills needed. Like you have too
recall when I was a student we had
want a society that has that. You want a
that the market needs. It's not an easy
Because you have a program that's
capabilities to teach perishable skills.
reasoning, they're PhD students from the
would want all universities to view AI
they have great durable skills. Join the
instead of them becoming a partner at a
right?
taught at the company. I love that. This
changing. I think in Workera, you have
we tried it in my company. We have media
a set of steps that they're following,
for a lot of other companies?
have demos are so easy to do now. You
how hard it is. And that's why MIT's
done large deployments. One of the
So, everybody is being measured,
That agent has been deployed very large
can fail.
next best model.
saying, "Oh, tell do the assessment in
So, it's so much hard work in there. The
stuck.
agree with it. Well, we have a feature
review within four business days and
thousands and thousands of people, well,
less of a mess. And you know, at some
a lot of cases, we even removed AI.
of not non-deterministic. And then, you
where I don't need to be real-time
the multiple choice question and take my
And so, we had to decide where do we do
person. You have a live conversation
describing, it feels like in order to
pave the right path for that agent. I
internal platform and create an agent
example, if you want to create a bot on
that is technical. You You now can have
know, we're building an AI agent that is
You can't get it wrong. The bar is
about jobs, I feel like we need more and
more companies cuz it's easier to start
more entrepreneurship, there will be
which one. Uh people would know. Um they
Where is that product? Who has used it?
what makes Calendly and and DocuSign, by
if you don't have the best product, if
to build a simple signature tool or
replace that is if actually you build a
worth it for a user. 50% better. And on
So, I don't buy this idea that of
blah. I think some company will build a
And because you don't want to you don't
it's just marketing campaigns. Yes,
and it just gets all the knowledge like,
It's just so much better than anything.
buy that there will be
like Calendly has built an amazing
So, how did they build that business?
of agents in the future, like you and I.
……（接近结尾）……
entrepreneur when I think about AI, if
AI can identify the problem, like when
it comes to Amazon Marketplace for
example, identify the product where um
demand is more than supply, ship it from
China automatically and just sell it, uh
it makes me a little sad, but from you
said cuz it's it takes a human to
constantly improve something and think
about the details and innovate. And
that's the the defensibility is not the
software. It's not going to be the code
because that's easy.
It's the expertise that you put into it.
And the the founder and
founding team, you know, things like
that matter more, and that's what makes
them win, yeah. I love it. Okay, for
everyone who's listening, our audience
is 25 to 40 years old. They all want to
become better in the age of AI, build
something. What are the three moves that
they should make in 2026? You know,
learn the foundations of AI,
assess yourself to make sure you're
ready,
build the habits of learning. Like every
every day when you wake up,
take 5 minutes,
read
the X posts of the people that you trust
in the space, and it turns out, you
know, you you won't feel better after a
week, but you will feel a lot better
after a year. You'll feel like you're at
the you're probably at the cutting edge.
You know some some someone said I saw
like
you know, if you focus on one thing for
a day, you probably are already in the
top you know, X percent of the world in
that thing. If you focus on it for a
week non-stop, you're in the top 10%.
Focus on a month, you're in the top 1%.
But to be in the top 0.1% you will have
to build that habit and follow it for 5
10 years and you might be the top 0.1%
at what you're trying to do. I love
that. I also like your point about
joining a hub.
Cuz this helps you evaluate yourself
Yeah. uh against other people like
compare notes and learn from each other.
Maybe start locally and then, you know,
change groups. Yeah, I think especially
if you're early in your career, today
hubs have significant advantages because
um so
you know, AI started in the Silicon
Valley uh pretty much the the I guess
the the new wave of AI agents. Um so
companies came.
So there was more opportunities, so more
people came. Because more people came,
more companies came. And now if you're
in San Francisco, you don't even need to
put on effort to learn what's happening
in AI. I go out at the dinner, uh we
talk about voice AI somehow. People talk
about Tesla autonomous autopilots. You
just learn constantly because you're in
the hub. I think in the next few years
it will be like that. The hubs are way
advanced uh compared to the rest. But I
think that in the next, you know, 5 10
years horizon, you know, people will get
slightly older, they would want to build
families, they will leave the hubs a lot
of them. They will take that knowledge
with them. They will probably start
building somewhere else.
that's what happened in the dot com when
engine software engineer was
concentrated and a few years later uh
actually it became democratized because
of online learning, because of access to
information, but also because a lot of
these experts moved elsewhere. And I
think the same thing will happen in 10
years, even outside the hubs you will
find great AI native micro hubs or local
communities. Yeah, that's amazing. Thank
you so much for this conversation. I
love podcast. When after the podcast,
I'm going to just text my team. We're
going to build the cloud thing. We're
going to make sure we have all of the
documents, everything synced. Thank you
so much. Love this feeling.
Kian is the reason why I came back home
from Davos and started implementing
Cloud across everything that I do. We
set up multiple Cloud projects for all
the social media that we're running. And
honestly, it's been so transformational.
Another conversation that's been really
transformational was my conversation
that I recorded at Davos with Ryan
Ryslinski. So, if you're all about AI,
if you're interested what's happening to
jobs and how you can get a better job by
posting on LinkedIn, watch that episode.
It's live on my channel and I'll see you
very soon. Bye.