TITLE: Markets Fall on Gap Between Trump's Talk and Actions | Bloomberg: The China Show 3/27/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5598  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-27T18:19:50+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YskEKMCsJ4E
SHA256: d34b84b32495e307b472a0ec7bb2dc01fdc89d5b9c94faad4681bea063f1e7a0

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] shares down about 6/10 of 1%. City did
  [10000] sending another 10,000 ground troops to
  [2024] in 2024. But then again, uh it is a down
  [2022] managers. And during the 2022 Ukraine
  [10%] and maybe like 10% or 20%
  [20%] and maybe like 10% or 20%
  [50%] month here and 50% gains already when it
  [2026] for for 2026
  [3%] some 3%.
  [18%] a monthly income of a of 18%. It's
  [4%] all of them more than 4% at this point
  [1500] that 1,500 mark, but around levels we
  [2009] haven't seen since 2009. So big bearing
  [1.1] Yesterday it was at $1.1 trillion in
  [4.3%] right now cash holdings is around 4.3%
  [5.6%] about 5.6%.
  [2000] 2,000 channel. And
  [11%] Pony.ai. We are tumbling some 11% in the
  [1.5%] We're up about 1.5%.
  [30%] cut the dividend by 30%. The stock is
  [12%] We're seeing the shares down 12% right
  [3000] 3,000.
  [97.9] we have our total revenue $97.9 million
  [90%] it is up by 90% year-over-year. Our
  [44.9] revenue $44.9 million
  [123%] up 123%
  [29.1] and our full-year gross profit was $29.1
  [7.60] So, the US listing trading around $7.60,
  [34%] them by 34% across all types of tickets.
  [8%] about 8% of the world's liquefied
  [2020] was seen in uh March 2020 during COVID.
  [2016] East, we are quite confident in 2016 for
  [2%] 1/2%. So,
  [70%] Everybody knows that is 70% out. So the
  [2017] in 2017 is there's some guaranteed. And
  [95%] of course the Henderson is now 95%
  [0.5%] Kong dollars a coupon rate of only 0.5%.
  [2025] dollars at the end of 2025.
  [26%] second half, as an example, was up 26%
  [2800] ETF. They just know it as a stock 2800.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
The 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong. You're watching The
China Show. I'm Yvonne Man with
Annabelle Jewelers.
markets in greater China and our top
stories this morning. Oil is edging
lower as President Trump extends his
deadline for Iran to strike a deal with
the US. He says talks with Tehran are
going very well.
following the sell-off on Wall Street.
Tech and memory chips also weighing on
the Kospi after Google touts a memory
breakthrough.
interviews lined up on The China Show.
We'll be talking earnings with
executives of Pony.ai, WeRide, and
Henderson Land.
all the stuff that's happening on the
show here today. We talk about the
amount of earnings and the CEOs that are
coming on, whether it's from the
robo-taxi side of things all the way to
property with Henderson Land. And then
we got the ETF segment as well. So
certainly there's a lot on tap. But I
think we're still focusing on as we wrap
up this trading week of what was
supposed to be, you know, optimism
around some sort of ceasefire in Iran.
It seems like those sort of
uh hopes are at least fading now.
in play. And so that's also driving, I
guess, commodity prices or it is driving
commodity prices. I mean, we we we had
that deadline. It was supposed to be 5
days, now it's 10 days. And so that's
the big question. I mean, President
Trump says the talks are going very
well. Tehran, obviously, we've seen it
having consistently quite a different
perception of how negotiations are
proceeding.
speaking to on the Iranian side uh
certainly is the key question. And I
think yeah, I think Bloomberg
Intelligence had a pretty interesting
take on it that, you know, $100 oil can
actually prolong for for a long time
here. That maybe we be some sort of
peaches given what we're seeing with the
rhetoric. But it seems like that $100
oil is here to stay for at least a
little bit more longer. As of course
this extension of this deadline maybe
does just extend the uncertainty a
little bit longer, too.
oil slipping on that deadline extension.
But let's take a look then at the market
action because we saw that sell-off on
Wall Street overnight. Actually, futures
are just matching a little bit high, but
it's it's really the main theme that
we're tracking today. And of course
there's really one big standout to the
downside, that's SK Hynix. There you can
see
all of them more than 4% at this point
in time. This is a story that's actually
started trending through the second half
of the week. So to put it in context
here, we're essentially very cautious or
there is caution around these memory
chip names. So SK Hynix, Samsung in
particular. Let's take a look at how
they're faring Kioxia as well, of
course, over in Japan. But but the the
sell-off here is being driven by a
release from Google. So actually,
they've just talked about their Turbo
quantum algorithm. They They had
released this last year, but they've
just publici- -zed it this week. And And
the key question here is you have this
compression
uh for for for running large language
models. Does that mean that less memory
is required? And that's why you're
seeing this downside pressure today. So
more with less essentially, and what
does that mean for that huge run-up
we've seen in some of the Korean names
in particular. Oil, as we said, big
focus on what's happening in the energy
space given you've got President Trump
extending this deadline for Iran to
strike a deal with the US by 10 days. Uh
as we said, his his his view is that the
talks are going very well. But there's
certainly big questions around what this
means for the for the risk of inflation.
And we've seen that very much building
into yields at the front end of the
curve. Uh you can see it continuing to
track what's happening with the US
2-year yield there. The Korean one, of
course, another one that we're tracking
uh given we've got that currency past
that 1,500 mark, but around levels we
haven't seen since 2009. So big bearing
on these economies in this part of the
world that are major energy importers.
Uh taking a quick look as well as said
the setup for China today, it's very
much driven by the earning story. That's
what we've been tracking this week.
Yesterday it was at $1.1 trillion in
market cap that was reporting. Lots of
different names that we're speaking to
and lots of great interviews coming up
this hour.
WeRide, Henderson, Christie's CEO. I
mean, we're talking about about that
their anniversary, of course, this
auction coming up. It's It's art week
also in Hong Kong. So, there's a lot
you could say? There's really something
for everyone.
restaurants. I mean, it's just it's just
a busy week for Hong Kong. Uh, President
Trump, though, let's talk about the
latest. Extending his deadline for Iran
to strike a deal with the US or face
more attacks. He has given Tehran 10
more days now, offering a brief calm to
global energy markets.
a 10-day
period. They asked for seven.
You're going to say, "Oh, Trump's a
terrible negotiator." They asked for
seven and I said, "I'm going to give you
10 because they gave me ships." And you
know, we talked about the eight ships,
you know, the president that I talked
about the other day. But, uh, they asked
for seven and I gave them 10. You got 10
days.
And they were very thankful about that.
reporting that the US is weighing
sending another 10,000 ground troops to
the Middle East. Let's bring in our
Bloomberg News desk managing editor Jill
Disis.
So, we've we've kicked the can down the
road for another 10 days. How should we
interpret that move?
think as you mentioned earlier, Yvon,
we're kind of just prolonging the period
of uncertainty here. Obviously, you're
seeing a little bit of that relief just
because the threat that Trump is posing
here is so massive. The idea of striking
energy sites, I mean, we saw what
happened What was it, a week ago?
When we we had the retaliation from
Iran. We know that they're more than
willing to come back with strikes of
their own on key energy facilities. So,
I mean, the fact that you've kind of uh
delayed that a little bit is why you're
seeing that reprieve here, but
ultimately, we still have so much
uncertainty around how these
negotiations are even taking place. I
mean, a lot of uh key Iran military and
uh intelligence officials are dead. Uh
we have some indication that maybe uh
key to the negotiations is the Iranian
speaker in parliament, but again, we
still don't have a ton of confirmation
there. There's a lot of conflicting back
and forth over this 15-point plan that
the US to Iran where we've heard um you
know, the Iranians have outright
rejected the idea of that 15-point plan.
Um so, ultimately here, you you do have
this reprieve. It's still unclear uh
exactly, you know, how these
negotiations took place, but uh we we
still don't know what that means beyond
that 10 days or if anything significant
could happen within that period uh
before that April 6th deadline.
be significant would be this plan that
we've got from the Wall Street Journal
reporting that Trump's looking at
possibly sending another 10,000 ground
troops. So,
what have we heard on that front? And
then, what are the the key things that
you're actually watching out for as
well?
within the last 30 minutes or so. Does
appear to have had a little bit of
market impact there, but cuz obviously,
that would um you know, imply that uh
while there's maybe a reprieve during
the negotiations, that doesn't
necessarily mean that zero military
action would be taking place over that
10-day period, right? Um so, I think
that's what you're seeing out of that uh
report from the Wall Street Journal.
Obviously, um again, uh you do have that
idea of these these conflicting reports
um within how exactly these negotiations
are going to take place. What that
……（中部抽样）……
ultimately means for um you know,
on oil supply, energy security around
world. And so, I mean, you're still kind
thanks so much for joining us. That was
or through the economy. So,
people are sort of looking beyond the
years this month. And if JPMorgan came
war, that number is much higher. It's at
we've spoken about this before, this
this is actually technology that came
benefited if you take a look at how
demand, but I think the market reaction
leveraged ETFs listed in Hong Kong
could exacerbate whatever we saw during
China show. The CEOs of Pony AI, WeRide,
aspects here. So, that's why I thought
theme cuz we've got Pony AI, WeRide that
company's profit rebound remains at risk
going to still be in losses. And I think
pressure. And if you actually combine
matter now in this competition? And how
the way that, you know, they're going to
really is that as they invest, how is
restaurants for the waiter to come
founding essentially, but it's just
this strong architecture, the lidar's
being used still, and that's for ADAS or
innovation, so that it can become as
been successful mass produced for
for your ADAS products?
at the end of this year. And I think in
sort of the production target that you
Those interviews happening at the times
the stock take a massive hit here this
You know, it was less than you know,
PopMart, right? So, it was a pretty, you
should have a relatively modest effect
the inflation risk is greater right now
inflation and trying to tame it given
or flation dominates. This is we kind of
assets are doing. Stocks are lower by
arrow story across the board here today
We're getting closer to 110 than 100
work to end this food price war, food
is actually catching a bid here this
sectors here. Oil stocks certainly in
there's We're still digesting whether,
talking about, you know, they're using
uh but did still fall short of estimates
of the profitability
we saw that reaction already in ADRs,
I I I'll I think stock will uh
globally.
performance.
to move into uh to replicate the results
we'll see probably uh UE break even in
in terms of the the momentum that you're
capacity to produce more vehicles. And
side, we see the surge uh
uh giants like Waymo. It It shows that
brand awareness, the industry awareness
bucket.
that are actually better generated
matter of days will be able to
prospect uh, uh, uh, our prospect is
actually surpass
we will definitely focus
right now, but we'll have more numbers
We're seeing the stock up this morning
and
market. We just announced and
that it's heavily undervalued right now.
WeRide has been doing operation and
three times just like three days ago.
and we are and we will soon have a lot
probability looks like to you now? Is it
want to reveal the details because it's
regulatory hurdles are kind of removed,
demonstrate, we will do this do that.
conflict will will end soon and we are
probably shift our emphasis on Europe a
morning. That was Tony Han there,
CEO. Plus, Hedgeye will be with us to
warned it would not be able to sustain
Qatar.
details in that, but the big question
this morning because again you're seeing
day of losses here when it comes to
came to some of these earnings
volumes that we've got because I'm just
said, that that big pain is being felt
Let's take a look at what's happening in
of course in the dollar. We're looking
officials are really thinking about all
think now even the likes of Lisa Cook
Lanting too again, our managing editor
playing out today and yesterday was this
outflow uh month-to-date has already hit
indiscriminate selling going on around
oil that's elevated and I was almost
economists are talking about a potential
though is that this is going to be more
benefit from this higher oil prices.
listed in Hong Kong so far we are seeing
and we saw yesterday Kuaishou again
a Bloomberg managing editor for Asia
brief calm to global energy markets.
10. You got 10 days
closer in terms of negotiations because
One day in Trump land is is is forever."
Monday, April the 6th.
escalation, once again, the risk has
said, different starting points in terms
region. We know that one of the Marine
would not hold back at retaliating
week. And yeah, maybe tell us why they
this morning because they're a little
sure he was the man that made that
anticipated uh by some analysts before
one-off gain less, so people is aware
the the decision is made in the board,
to say hedging or to hedge or not to
the first quarter. So, given that
I think it's it's
overall? What
1/2%. So,
rate increase, but that can happen or
uh land bank for better price. So,
adjustment in the old Kowloon uh old
Central Harbor Front. I see it every
good news soon. Soon, I hope so. But
we have a opera which is quite exciting.
not
do a little if the market do not revive
you know downward trend.
leasing rate will go up but it's all
peers have been
loan though from a from a
But actually you look at it's not my
10 billion. 10 billion is 3% gearing. So
certain size so some so some resilience.
especially for corn for corn trading or
Kowloon or in East Kowloon. So, I think
we have no
days. Andrew Foong, the CFO at Henderson
are continuing to see some pressure on
this week because we've seen the 2-year
term.
Christie's 20th to 21st century spring
mhm feels a little bit different this
going to have this evening and tomorrow.
tonight, a Dutch master. We have a great
and and to spend big, do you think?
really Annabelle Bloom people start
gateway really through luxury.
us. We've our loan book is about a
And it's really a very discreet
Is that going to be concerning to you or
we saw during COVID for example in the
great continued sort of engagement from
when they or the you know, the art
work by a modern 20th century master,
today, but we've got the HKX or Hong
force in ETF flows since the start of
and dips have continued. Investors are
tracker fund. Most people that trade
ETF AUM. The reason why is this ETF pays
at close to 90 billion now. Just 5 years
Hynix. That's now making the top of the
Sitting there with Bloomberg
ambitious targets to you or do you think
continuing to see that grow.
that, you know, Rebecca mentioned are
investor set, Hong Kong previously had
……（接近结尾）……
derivatives for them.
for coming into the studio. That was
Brian Roberts, the managing director
head of equities product development at
HKX and you can tune into ETF IQ Asia
every Friday on the China show. We're
bringing you more analysis and
conversations with top market players
and also newsmakers. We'll have more
ahead. This is Bloomberg.
Well, from tariffs to the conflict in
the Middle East, traditional US allies
are increasingly viewing Washington as
an unreliable partner under President
Trump and
many actually hedging hedging their bets
rather by way of China.
president may be accelerating Beijing's
influence on the global stage. Here's a
preview.
Xi Jinping likes to use.
The world is undergoing changes which
have not been seen in a hundred years.
arrive, but they're delivered
unexpectedly by Donald Trump.
another major power is speaking volumes.
force for instability in the world and
that gives President Xi and China a
chance to present themselves as the
adults in the room.
getting bogged down in the Middle East.
China has long viewed the existing order
as being too dominated by the US. So,
Trump's challenges to that order
actually presents Xi Jinping a very good
opportunity. And the question is whether
she is ready to seize it.
realize that dependence on the US is a
very dangerous thing. China's exports to
the US fell about 20% last year. But in
the end, China had a record trade
surplus hitting 1.2 trillion US dollars.
away from the US as a consumer base.
or expose it to more risk it cannot
control?
in full right now on the terminal or at
bloomberg.com.
Uh yeah, just to talk a little more
about the China story. We we did get
some data earlier on in the last hour
when it came to industrial profits. Mind
you, these are a bit dated given the
fact it was before the Iran conflict
began. But then again, there were some
pretty interesting numbers, right? We're
talking about 15.2% increase in
industrial profits for the first 2
months of this year. So, even before
this sort of geopolitical risk and all
that, you know, you're starting to see
signs of maybe a recovery trend that's
being formed. And you got to wonder, you
know, with the spike in energy prices,
is this sort of reflation story in China
finally coming through?
this point at the top of the hour that
actually this
the war in Iran could end up being a a
boom for China on multiple fronts if it
does actually manage to sort of stoke
these in inflationary signals in the
economy. I think as well though what
we're really seeing develop from a lot
of different investors is is China can
actually act as a safe haven as well.
Mizuho, Sean Darby, you know, talking
about maybe, you know, the CSI 300
probably bottomed, they think, back in
2024.
Uh and they're talking about this out of
30/70
portfolio when it comes to bonds and
equities. Um and and you know, the value
tilt that they think is probably the way
to go from here forward. Gavical also
came through saying bonds are are sort
of the Chinese bonds story is sort of
more of that reserve asset in the face a
lot of this volatility as well. So, you
know, if you start to see what we're
starting to see, maybe early signs of
domestic debt demand bottoming, and you
start to see more, you know,
anti-involution, and we heard that from
regulators this week already to rein in
these price wars, or you know, maybe we
are starting to see some mild reflation
coming through once again.
as you said, it that sovereign debt
story, um at least from Gavical's
perspective, it is also underpinned by
China's ability to to produce more
electricity at a low cost than anyone
else, and that's really one of their
major benefits.
question. There's still caveats to all
of this trade, obviously, here, right?
And what this means when it comes to uh
the industrial side of things, when it
comes to these, you know, it's not
really maybe not domestic demand, but
maybe it's more just about material
costs and the like that's rising, right?
So,
we got plenty more to go. Have a great
weekend.