TITLE: The Midterms Begin With a Texas-Size Showdown
CHANNEL: The Daily
DURATION_S: 2003  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-03T15:25:38+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gQpb-8FZVVA
SHA256: 03015698c9d113c2cf761be8bd21f51182b337ef261ab8fe6b033a009805a0f4

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2024] And then when Trump runs in 2024,
  [50%] &gt;&gt; So in Texas, you have to get 50% to
  [2026] reelection for 2026.
  [99%] he voted with Donald Trump 99% of the
  [2020] the certification of the 2020 election.
  [2028] race in 2028. What is the future face of

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
From the New York Times, I'm Michael
Bavaro. This is the Daily.
In Texas today, amid the president's
sinking popularity [music]
and his widening war with Iran,
Democrats and Republicans will head to
the polls for an election that will send
both [music] parties a message about
what voters want and don't want in
Trump's [music] America.
Fighting or healing, loyalty [music] or
defiance?
I spoke with my colleague, national
political correspondent Shane Goldmacher
about the [music] Senate primary that
everyone in US politics is watching.
It's [music] Tuesday, March 3rd.
Shane, Michael,
promised were really around the corner,
are actually now
places, Texas, state known for very big
political personalities and political
dramas. Are you ready for it?
kickoff of the midterm season.
this is the the central one. And we're
not actually interested in it just
because it's the first, although that's
plenty of reason to be interested in it.
We're interested in the Texas midterm
primary on Tuesday because it looks to
be a race on both sides. the selection
of a Democratic nominee and a Republican
nominee for US Senate that is really
capturing the big soularching battle for
the identity of both parties in this era
of Trump's America.
the direction of the Democratic party at
this moment and what is the direction of
the Republican party in this moment? The
midterm fight there in this primary is
one of the most interesting ones. This
Texas race has a little bit of
everything. It's a fight over race. It's
a fight over religion. It's a fight over
ideology. It's a fight over Donald
Trump. It's a fight over electability.
It is, in short, a fight over almost
everything that we fight about in
American politics. And it is a race for
Republicans between a sort of a fixture
of the old guard of the Republican party
still
who's been around for 20 years and a
challenger who is really made in the
image of Donald Trump controversial and
popular with the right-wing base of the
Republican party. And for Democrats it's
a choice between two candidates who
really offer the paths for the party
forward. Do you want to pick someone who
is a fighter who is going to just throw
haymakers all day?
pick somebody who is more of a healer
type? Someone who says, "Yes, there's
fights we need to be have, but
ultimately it's about bridging our
divides." And this is the first
measurement for both parties this year
of where they stand on those kind of big
ticket questions. And I'd say the
cliche, everything is bigger in Texas.
This is the most expensive primary
advertising in a primary in a primary.
here? The Democratic candidates or the
Republican ones?
start with the Republicans and the
Republican incumbent who is running for
reelection.
and privilege to represent her, all 29
million of us in the United States
Senate,
I don't believe we need to make Texas
like Chuck Schumer's New York or Nancy
Pelosy's California. We need to make the
rest of the country more like Texas.
years. He's been in the Senate
leadership. He has run the Senate
Republican campaign arm. And on paper,
that's the kind of person who should
just have a shoe in for reelection.
has committed some sins in the eyes of
Republican primary voters, which is that
he has broken at times with Donald
Trump.
speaking out against Trump's longshot
legal challenge to overturn the
election, including Texas Senator John
Cornin,
struggling to understand the legal
theory behind this case. Texas Congress
criticism of Trump's behavior in the
run-up to the riot. Now, he didn't vote
to impeach him or anything, but he
wasn't proTrump at that moment. [music]
And then when Trump runs in 2024,
John Cornin says former President Donald
Trump cannot win a general election. In
a call with Texas reporters [music]
today, Senator Cornin said, quote, "I
think President Trump's time has passed
him by." [music]
the Trump trend, but he wasn't an early
occupant of the 2024 Trump comeback
ride.
reelection for 2026.
he made America great. and the shoe is
suddenly on the other foot. Meaning
meaning that Trump might have wanted
Cornin's endorsement before, but now
it's Cornin who wants Donald Trump's
endorsement. In President Trump's first
term, I was Republican whip delivering
the votes for his biggest wins. [music]
to Donald Trump. His materials are about
he voted with Donald Trump 99% of the
time. He is bear hugging the president
who he had been skeptical of not that
long ago. [music] God bless you and your
families. God bless America and God
bless Texas.
a fairly logical not just shoein for
re-election in theory, but someone the
president could probably get behind.
re-election. It's uncommon for a sitting
senator to face a real primary
challenge. However,
real primary opponent.
trying to put me in prison, having the
FBI investigate me for two years because
I sued him 27 times in two years.
Trump.
Biden administration also investigating
me for four years because I sued them
107 times over four years and they
didn't like it.
the attorney general of Texas, a guy
named Ken Paxton. This
protected our gun rights, defended the
right to life, and took on the radical
transgender movement.
about Trump, Ken Paxton has never been
skeptical about Donald Trump.
I can tell you this. I've watched a lot
of presidents in my lifetime and no
president accomplish more with that type
of adversity than any other president in
my lifetime.
everything Trump has done. Talk about
that key moment for Trump, that runup to
the certification of the 2020 election.
other states and we sued four states
over the ballot fraud and we took it
directly to the Supreme Court. Ken
Paxton as attorney general was the guy
filing a lawsuit on behalf of Texas
trying to invalidate the results.
not quitting. God bless.
lot of ways he's Trump before Trump in
Texas.
has been impeached by Republicans. Ken
Paxton, you know, has been accused by
his ex-wife of marital infidelity. And
you know what? The Republican primary
voters in Texas have loved him. And so
Ken Paxton gets in this race and
immediately he's up in the polls.
He is tied or ahead of John Cornin at
the very start. And the Republican
political establishment of which Cornin
is a card carrying member
Paxton is so vulnerable because of
impeachments and indictments and
corruption accused by his own top aids
that Ken Paxton could make the seat
something Democrats could conceivably
win.
then potentially a Texas Senate seat
could be in play for Democrats in a
general election if they put up a strong
hand. They're pretty open about it that
Ken Paxton would be a disaster for the
party. Even if he might be able to win,
they say it could cost $200 million to
save Ken Paxton. And so the Republican
political session has made this decision
instead of letting this primary just
play out and seeing where the cards
fall. They're going to intervene early
to save John Cornin.
because there's in fact a third
candidate
So tell me about the man Wesley Hunt.
younger black congressman from Texas,
gets into the race later and says, "I
want to be an alternative candidate
here."
And I don't think we should think of him
just as an afterthought because in
recent weeks both Paxton and Cornin have
stopped attacking each other and started
chiefly attacking Hunt.
become the nominee. And in a three-way
race, that's really hard. And so what
they're both doing is trying to ensure
that they get to face each other in a
runoff. Cornin had fears that Hunt might
pass him and make the runoff instead.
And Paxton wants to make sure he's
running against Cornin at the end of the
day. And so they found common alliance
in attacking Hunt.
But the main event both now and likely
in the runoff is Paxton versus Cornin.
……（中部抽样）……
So let's spend some time with that main
they campaigning against each other and
attack between them?
them from each other.
get elected president. [music] Quite a
ways that Cornin has previously broken
team today.
wars have overwhelmingly been trying to
Cornin, for working with President Trump
thank him for standing with President
all in this primary is what has the
about whether he's going to back either
a surprise move, the third candidate,
primary for almost every Republican race
some early moves for this. He hired
pollster to be his pollster. So when
about races, guess what? It's somebody
Trump's campaign manager, Chris
So he has Trump allies on the inside
Senate leadership that is spending all
lobbying Trump, too. They're saying,
now. Back John Cornin." And Trump just
all that spending, Cornin has not pulled
close to 50%.
doesn't want to waste his endorsement on
his influence with the Republican party
holds sway. He sees in Ken Paxton some
support despite scandal.
race and its dynamics really tell us
term? Because in some ways the simplest
country is very tired of President Trump
the strongest after just a year. But
Trump base, which is always the
primary, is not tired of Trump. And so
what party leadership in Washington
a primary,
chief defining characteristic of
at this point. I think what's
test of his approaches popularity and
Trump style that Ken Paxton mimics going
Donald Trump?
right issue is and leans into it and has
support in the Republican party base for
of that kind of politics and its
beyond Donald Trump. [music]
and when we come back we're going to
Texas primary and the question of how
be most electable against someone like
they seize what could be for them a real
We'll be right back.
Democratic side of this primary. And my
and maybe a little bit less, but not
side.
the Democratic party. They dream of
cycle.
Allred. $100 million was raised by the
Senate candidates where Democrats
Texas
again and the Democratic party already
immediately
Please welcome my friend, the next US
and his name is James Terico.
that we follow a barefoot rabbi who gave
neighbor because
preacher and their flock outside a
than a constitution.
rather than what divides us [music] and
It's a promise that we make to each
primary, this very much has the feel of
the political spectrum to make yourself
electorate.
months earlier.
you.
podcast.
for of the Ten Commandments in schools.
People who are like, you're you're in
minister. Why wouldn't you want the Ten
recognize
to seminary school, is deeply religious,
than your average Democrat. And Rogan
exists on both sides of the aisle, but I
cancel culture on my side of the aisle
spirituality
He says that James Telico should run for
Republican governor of Texas is
congressional seats as possible.
he's on national television
dramatic and in fact it ends up not
plan backed by
Representative James Telerico.
of a Democratic party's resistance to
gerrymandering. you take a look at these
the voices they dilute, um it is
Day and [music] just shoots off like a
money online. And so Terrio, who entered
end of the year, looks like the dominant
nominee for Senate,
in a huge twist, another candidate
the Democratic Party.
American history. I've said it once.
know her and and many of them do, is as
fire.
know what you're here for.
with Marjorie Taylor Green where they've
understand your ruling. If someone on
somebody's bleach blonde, badu built
in personalities. Correct.
over again. And sometimes she goes over
so many times. She has attacked the
wheelchair, Greg Abbott.
Wheels.
yes. Yes. Yes. She later said it had no
wheelchair. She just happened to call
race and she's sort of a polar opposite
Talerico.
said, "It was like an asteroid hit our
an asteroid that rams into the the
And when Crockett enters the race, how
the fighter of the asteroid? I mean,
Her opening ad is really a memorable and
new Sar Crockett. How about her?
entire ad is narrated by Donald Trump.
a very low IQ person.
It's just Donald Trump attacking her.
"You got to be kidding."
fighter. She's the fighter that they
to go heal and bring in, [music] you
is going to mobilize and create a new
Texas for the party. She's got a very
excites the base of the Democratic
The Republican party. The Republicans
race. [music]
to get her to run. The first poll that
nominee, it was paid for by the Senate
out the summer before to try to stir the
Republicans are quite convinced that if
Democratic side, they stand a far better
of winning Texas, winning the Senate
Paxton could lose this race for them,
could also win this race for them.
opposite candidates in this primary,
telling us?
And the race, frankly, has been pretty
along racial lines. Allies of Terico
Crockett made about Latino voters and
slave mentality. And some of Crockett's
criticized Telerico and the entire
surrounded him as racist.
Telerico is white. And so the argument
Crockett have made is, "Oh, so the only
white." Shane, I have to imagine that
Jasmine Crockett's polling numbers and
potentially adjust and make sure that
some kind of a fighter as well. That
overstate that he's exclusively been a
identified a villain,
billionaire class and said, "We all the
moderates, we are all on the same side.
putting us down." And he is attacking,
He's attacking in one of his last ads
administration. He's not attacking
campaign has been pretty open about
like the front runner in this race. And
twist,
going to go the outer space metaphor to
coming to New York and he's going to do
records this segment and the segment
the segment doesn't air on his show
because there was a threat from the
airing only one side of a primary race
field. Now, here's the thing. I don't uh
people are watching this right now, it's
something is to tell them that they
place.
that we're about to flip Texas.
Terrio. gets to say, "Look, you want to
somebody who scares the Trump
want me on television, right?" And the
……（接近结尾）……
the Democratic party? Do you turn to a
person who is ready to just throw
punches the entire time? Or do you turn
to a person who is outwardly saying, "I
want to reach out to the middle." Do you
mobilize your base? Do you reach for
swing voters? Can you do both? I mean,
this is the huge debate in the party and
it's playing out with two of the stars
of the party right now. Okay, let's
project for just a moment to a
theoretical general election. Our
conversation will run before we know the
winners. and we may not know the winners
on the Republican side for quite some
time. If there is, as we expect, a
runoff. So, just conjure what this race
might look like. And is it a foregone
conclusion that Democrats can't win this
race?
In a year where Donald Trump is
increasingly unpopular and losing
support on the key issue of the economy,
I don't think it's fair to say any state
is going to be entirely off the table,
especially with Ken Paxton, who the
Republican party is saying in words and
money they're afraid could lose. Look,
James Tarico entered this race in the
first place. He has said this because he
liked the contrast that he would present
with Ken Paxton. So that's the scenario
that intrigues people it feels like the
most. The general election in which
James Telerico runs against Ken Paxton.
Yeah. This is the scenario that
Republicans have most wanted to avoid.
Republicans have intervened to stop Ken
Paxton and they've intervened to
encourage Jasmine Crockett. So you don't
have to believe me or what all the
strategists are saying on the record or
off the record. Their actions show that
is the matchup they've been trying to
avoid here. Of course, everyone
has and can be again wrong in American
politics. And it could turn out that
Jasmine Crockett wins the Democratic
primary and emerges as a quite strong
general election candidate. Yeah. I
mean, there are people, Donald Trump,
chief among them, who have won by
motivating the Republican party base.
And I do want to bring back Texas and
why Texas is so important. It's already
one of the biggest states in the
country. It's growing. the next time
that they do a census, it's going to
pick up maybe four congressional seats.
That's the projection. This is not a
state that Democrats think they can let
fall off the map. They need to find a
way to compete in Texas. And so, this is
an important test for the party. Can you
find a candidate, a message, a style to
make Texas competitive? [music]
Shane, thank you very much. Thank you.
The voting in Texas begins at 7:00 a.m.
and ends at 7:00 p.m. [music]
So far, early voting has already reached
record highs on the Democratic side.
If, [music] as expected, the Republican
race results in a runoff, that election
will be held [music] in May.
We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need to know
Iran meaningfully expanded. In Lebanon,
the Iranianbacked militia group
Hezbollah fired rockets into Israel,
prompting Israel [music] to bombard the
militia's strongholds outside Beirut. In
Saudi Arabia and Qatar, officials said
that Iran had attacked [music] key
pieces of infrastructure, including an
energy plant and an oil refinery. In
Kuwait, [music]
local air defenses mistakenly shot down
three American fighter jets in one of
the war's first major incidents of
friendly fire. All six American [music]
crew members survived and one of them
was greeted on the ground by a grateful
group of Kuwaiti men.
good. Thank you for helping us.
Everything.
military leaders said they would send
more troops and fighter [music] jets to
the region. And President Trump said
that the American Israeli assault
originally planned.
projected four to 5 weeks, but uh we
have [music] capability to go far longer
than that. We'll do it. Whatever
somebody [music] said today, they said,
"Oh, well, president wants to do it
really quickly. After that, he'll get
bored." I [music] don't get bored.
There's nothing boring about this.
Today's [music] episode was produced by
Mooj Zadei, Claire Tennisceter, and
Carlos Prito with help from Mustava Mesa
and [music] Christina Avalos. It was
edited by Rachel Quester. Contains music
by [music] Marian Lozano, Dan Powell,
and Diane Wong. Our theme song is by
Wonderly. This episode was engineered by
Alyssa Moxley.
That's it [music] for the daily. I'm
Michael Babano. See you tomorrow.