TITLE: Skill Issue: Andrej Karpathy on Code Agents, AutoResearch, and the Loopy Era of AI
CHANNEL: No Priors Podcast
DURATION_S: 3992  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-20T13:27:35+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kwSVtQ7dziU
SHA256: ce3bba292a80a2aa53966f4fc3070d2f02eabfd18071548c7e94598c107eaa06

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [100%] tuning the code. So 100% there's like
  [10000] know, someone had to try 10,000 ideas
  [99000] because the 99,000 of them didn't work,
  [2024] decade but it was made in 2024. Mhm. We
  [60%] was it like 60% or something like from

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Code's not even the right verb anymore,
right? [laughter] But I have to
express my will to my agents for 16
hours a day. Manifest. [music]
How can I have not just a single session
of Claude code or Codex or some of these
agent harnesses? How can I have more of
them? How can I do that appropriately?
The agent part is now taken for granted.
Now the claw-like entities are taken for
granted and now you can have multiple of
them and now you can have instructions
to them and now you can have
optimization over the instructions. But
there
psychosis is that this is like infinite
and everything is a skill issue.
Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today I'm here with Andre Karpathy and
we have a wide-ranging conversation for
you about code agents, the future of
engineering and AI research, how more
people can contribute to research,
what's happening in robotics, his
prediction for how agents can reach out
education in this next age. Welcome,
Andre.
Andre, thanks for doing this. Yeah,
thank you for having me.
Uh so it's been a very exciting couple
of months in AI. Uh yeah, you could say
that.
some point and you were like really
locked in and I was asking what you were
up to and you're like, I just I have to
code for 16 hours a day or code's not
even the right verb anymore, right? But
I have to
um express my will to my agents for 16
hours a day. Manifest
um because like there's been a jump in
capability.
Uh what's happening? Tell me about your
experience. Yeah, I kind of feel like I
was just in this perpetual I still am
often in this state of AI psychosis just
like all the time um because there was a
huge unlock in what you can achieve as a
person as an individual, right? Because
you were bottlenecked by, you know, your
typing speed and so on. But now with
these agents it really, I would say in
December is when it really just
something flipped where I kind of went
from 80/20 of like, you know, uh to like
20/80 of writing code by myself versus
just delegating to agents. And I don't
even think it's 20/80 by now. I think
it's a lot more than that. I don't think
I've typed like a line of code probably
since December basically.
uh change. Um I was talking to it like
for example, I was talking about it to
for example my parents and so on and I
don't think like a normal person
actually realizes that this happened or
how dramatic it was. Like literally like
if you just find a random software
engineer or something like that at their
at their desk and what they're doing,
like their default workflow of, you
know, building software is completely
different as of basically December.
Uh so I'm just like in this state of
psychosis of trying to figure out like
what's possible, uh trying to push it to
the limit. How is it how can I have not
just a single session of, you know, um
Claude code or Codex or some of these
agent harnesses? How can I have more of
them? How can I do that uh
appropriately? And then how can I use
these claws? What are these claws? Uh
and uh so there's like a lot of new
things. I want to be at the forefront of
it, you know, and I'm very
antsy that I'm not at the forefront of
it and I see lots of people on Twitter
doing all kinds of things and they all
sound like really good ideas and I need
to be at the forefront or I feel
extremely nervous. And so I guess I'm
just in this psychosis of like what's
possible like because it's unexplored
fundamentally. Well, if you're nervous,
the rest of us are are nervous. We have
a we have a team that we work with at
Conviction that their setup is everybody
is like, you know, none of the engineers
write code by hand and they they're all
microphoned and they just like whisper
to their agents all the time. It's the
strangest work setting ever.
Uh and I thought they were crazy and now
I like I fully accept I was like, oh
this was the way. Like you're just ahead
of it.
Um what uh
how do you think about your own capacity
now to like explore or to do projects?
Like what is it limited by?
Yeah, what is it limited by? Uh just I
think everything like so many things
even if they don't work, I think to a
large extent you feel like it's a skill
issue. It's not that the capability is
not there. It's that you just haven't
found a way to string it together of
what's available. Like I just don't I
didn't give good enough instructions in
the agents from the file or whatever it
may be. I don't have a nice enough
memory tool that I put in there or
something like that. So it all kind of
feels like skill issue when it doesn't
work to some extent. You want to see how
you can parallelize them etc. and you
want to be Peter Steinberg basically. Uh
so Peter is famous. He has a funny photo
where he's in front of a monitor with
lots of uh like he uses Codex. So lots
of Codex agents tiling the the monitor
and they all take about 20 minutes if
you prompt them correctly and use the
high effort. And so they all take about
20 minutes. They have multiple, you
know, 10 repos checked out. And so he's
just um going between them and giving
them work. It's just like you can you
can you can move in much larger macro
actions. It's not just like here's a
line of code, here's a new function.
It's like here's a new functionality and
delegate it to agent one. Here's a new
functionality that's not going to
interfere with the other one. Give it
agent two. And then try to uh review
their work as best as you can
that code. Like where are these macro
actions that I can like manipulate my
software repository by? And like another
agent is doing some like research,
another agent is writing code, another
one is coming up with a plan for some
new implementation. And so everything is
just like happens in these like macro
actions over your repository. Um and
you're just trying to become like really
good at it and develop like a muscle
memory for it is extremely um
Yeah, it's very rewarding number one
because it actually works. Uh but it's
also kind of like the new thing to
learn. So that's why hence the
psychosis.
Yeah, I I do feel like my instinct is
like
whenever I'm waiting for an agent to
complete something, the obvious thing to
do is like, well, I can do more work,
right? Like if I have access to more
tokens then like I should just
parallelize at tasks. And so that's
that's very stressful because if you
don't feel very bounded by your ability
to spend on tokens, then you know, you
are the bottleneck in the system that is
max capability. Yeah, if you're not
maximizing your subscription at least.
And
ideally for multiple agents. Like if you
run out of the quota on Codex, you
should switch to Claude or whatnot. I
don't know. Like that's what I've been
trying to do a little bit and I feel
nervous when I have subscription left
over. That just means I haven't
maximized my token throughput. So I
actually kind of experienced this when I
was a PhD student. You would feel
nervous when your GPUs are not running.
Like you have GPU capability and you're
not maximizing your the available flops
to you. But now it's not about flops,
it's about tokens.
So what is your token throughput and
what token throughput do you command? I
would actually argue that it's very
interesting that we had, you know, at
least 10 years where
in many engineering tasks people just
did they didn't feel compute bound.
Right? Um and now the entire industry
feels that now. They feel like they they
they felt resource bound uh
and now that you have this big
capability jump, you're like, oh,
actually it's not, you know, my ability
to access the computer anymore. Like I'm
I'm the binding constraint. Yeah, it's a
skill issue. Which is very empowering
cuz um yeah, cuz you could be getting
better. So that's why that's why I think
it's very addictive because there's
unlocks when you when you get better.
……（中部抽样）……
Where do you think it goes? Like if you
Well, I think everyone is basically
I mean this like layer that kind of
kind of thing.
users versus like perhaps like broader
different ways and put it all together.
I would say um for example Codex is a
formed thoughts and uh I give it an idea
uh and I think a lot of the other uh
software engineering that you think is
which I was kind of surprised that it
and it's like, "Oh, yeah, you have these
comes out and I'm like, "I can't believe
lights in the home. And then it was like
someone rolls in I have a Quinn, uh,
you got new mail or something like
things with it, uh, but for me even just
indicative of like what people want from
what an AI is is not actually what an
to some extent it's like matching the
it as Dobby or some persona obviously
well, you have the hardware but you've
APIs and shouldn't agents be just using
overproduction of lots of custom bespoke
track of how often I do my cardio, uh,
the customer is not the human anymore.
to some extent
is like any AI, even the open source
just, uh, start to the barrier will just
the boundaries of what you can do
but I will say that, um,
very cautious in that in that realm.
model as a task you want to see agents
the next thing. You're You need to take
tokens just once in a while and a huge
loop like looking at results, etc. Like
metric, here's your boundaries of what
models and so on is just a little
roughly speaking. And so for me this is
decades of like, "Oh, I've trained this
overnight and it came back with like
hyperparameter optimizations. I
you know, the repo was already fairly
frontier level intelligence is about
interesting project and probably what
like rewrite the whole thing because
queue and there is workers that pull
per second throughputs and it does
at describing like how the auto
loop maybe that looks for
research organization. So maybe they do
you have multiple research orgs
where do you get most improvement?
you can 100% imagine doing that. So I
for granted. Now the claw-like entities
Yeah, that's just coming back to This is
remove
are easy to evaluate. So for example,
but many things will not be. And so they
at the seams a little bit and there's
talking to an extremely brilliant PhD
have some.
you feel the power of it,
if I could hypothesize is fundamentally
or no. But some of the things where
either on rails and you're part of the
get? There's the joke. The joke? I do
this is the joke you still get today.
learning. It's outside of what's being
smartness being attached to code
that if you're smarter at code
amount.
what's going on and there's some blind
So that's why I think like even though
and it's all rolled up in a
Instead of just MOE that we have no
into the parameters. I do think that we
other part kind of parts and I think we
then um and then they they can become
unbundling kind of makes sense. One
do like even one single model, right?
just yet, right? No. Uh we're seeing a
Yeah, I think fundamentally like the
would see that there. Um or there would
as an example. And I we don't have these
deeply adjust the models, how you have
the full model and potentially its
this thing. Um we need more
around with a few ideas but I don't have
it's very easy to just have multiple
If anyone gives you a candidate commit,
etc. So you're basically dealing with a
code as you're improving it. Um and uh
issue where
you know? Um and so basically long story
sends you arbitrary code and you're
configuration that is low energy. But if
will be good fits. And so um long story
bigger and has huge amount of untrusted
uh lots of companies or whatnot they
purchase compute and then you could join
you know, here in Silicon Valley or
future? Like is there going to be like a
like what wealth you control? I don't
curious to um
interested to like look through
change? Are they going to grow or uh
expected to grow over the next I think
primarily being
probably going to go slightly slower
rewriting, huge amount of activity,
a lot of digital information processing
so I think what's really fascinating to
it does has to do with like demand
now or what skills to develop? I mean we
answers will probably vary, but uh to a
etc. As which is totally understandable,
really hard to forecast, to be honest.
feel about it. Yeah, do you know? Yeah,
powerful, yeah. The the classical
are more tellers. It's like the
extremely large. Um and it's just become
processing. You're not forced to use
And I think it's going to create a lot
like I went around um Some of those
building automation for Sam or something
you Noam's question? Mhm. You know, you
little bit. Um I will say that I feel
have in those kinds of roles. I think
society in very dramatic ways. And here
so it's kind of um It's still not
the organization wants you to say. And
feel like a bit more a lot like aligned
you're one of them, maybe your ideas are
you're an employee at an organization, I
those are like some sources of
down the line. And I think if you're
hood. That's an opaque system.
know, some amount of time and do really
happening, but also not feel like you're
Yeah, there's many things to do on the
little bit, but I mean I joined the
how sustainable that is. I I think Yeah.
long-term contributor to open source.
is the latest? Maybe like 8 months, 6
Linux is extremely successful project.
that's why businesses actually want
for the vast majority of like consumer
demand for like frontier intelligence
and maybe that's where a lot of the
the closed labs uh might be open-source
actually think that's like a pretty
in the past and has um
has access to. Yeah, that seems to me
game. And so I want to like root for
we're actually like in an okay spot.
been like even further centralizing
I want there to be more people in the
want it to be like a closed doors with
of like a good thing. Okay, you worked
happen? Has anything in your view
long-term make it. Um and what I saw is
of feel like they will lag be it will
like where the activity is, I kind of
tasks and participating in kind of
huge amount of like digital work uh
already up uploaded. Uh so you're going
happen is first there's going to be a
superintelligence in a certain sense uh
what can happen in digital space. So
follow that kind of trajectory. So right
are much easier even in the world of
……（接近结尾）……
is not really adding too much because
people cuz it's already so simple that
it's 200 lines that anyone could ask
their agent to explain it in various
ways. And the agents like I'm not
explaining to people anymore. I'm
explaining it to agents. If you can
explain it to agents, then agents can be
the router and they can actually target
it to the human in their language uh
with infinite uh you know,
patience and uh just at their capability
and so on. Right. If I don't understand
um this particular function, I can ask
the agent to explain it to me like three
different ways and I'm not going to get
that from you. Exactly. And so, I kind
of feel like, you know, what is
education? Like it used to be guides, it
used to be lectures, it used to be this
thing, but now I feel like now more I'm
explaining things to agents and maybe
I'm coming up with skills uh where like
um
uh so, basically skill is just a way to
instruct the agent how to teach the
thing. So, maybe I could have a skill
for micro GPT of the progression I
imagine the agent should take you
through if you're interested in
understanding the code base. And it's
just like hints to the model to like uh
first start off with this and then with
that. And so, I could just script the
curriculum a little bit as a skill.
Uh so,
uh so, I I don't feel like um
yeah, I feel like there's going to be
less of like explaining things directly
to people and it's going to be more of
just like does the agent get it? And if
the agent gets it, they'll do the
explanation. And we're not fully there
yet because they I still can I still
think I can probably explain things a
little bit better than the agents, but I
still feel like the models are improving
so rapidly that um
I feel like it's a losing battle to some
to some extent.
Um and so, I think education is going to
be kind of like reshuffled by this quite
substantially uh where it's the end of
like teaching each other things a little
bit like if I have a um library for
example of code or something like that.
It used to be that you have
documentation for other people who are
going to use your library, but like you
shouldn't do that anymore. Like you
should have instead of HTML documents
for humans, you have markdown documents
for agents. Cuz if agents get it, then
they can just explain all the different
parts of it. So, it's this redirection
through agents, you know?
Um and that's why. So, I think we're
going to see a lot more of that playing
out. Well, we'll see if the great
teachers know like to develop intuition
for how to explain things to agents
differently.
like I asked I tried to get an agent to
write micro GPT. So, I told it like try
to boil down the simplest things. Like
try to boil down my um neural network
training to the simplest thing and it
can't do it. Like micro GPT is like my
is it's like my end of my obsession.
It's the 200 lines. I thought about this
for a long time. I was obsessed about
this for a long time. This is this is
the solution. Trust me, it can't get
simpler. And this is this is my value
add. Everything else like agent gets it.
It just can't come up with it, but it
totally gets it and understands why it's
done in a certain way etc. Uh so, like
my contribution is kind of like these
few bits, but everything else in terms
of like the education that goes on after
that is like not my domain anymore.
So, maybe
yeah, it's like education kind of
changes in those ways where you kind of
have to infuse the few bits that you
feel strongly about the curriculum or
the the best the better way of
explaining it or something like that.
The things that agents can't do is your
job now. The things that agents can do,
they can probably do better than you or
like very soon. And so, you should um be
strategic about what you're actually
spending time on. Well, we appreciate
the few bits.
Thank you, Andre.
Okay.
Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. [music] That way you get a
new episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priors.com.