TITLE: Rory Johnston on How Oil Could Surge to Over $200 a Barrel | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 2195  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-10T12:47:26+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ejPFstidmew
SHA256: 190c1376acc86f2bc23f0976698cbbf9a41777a8f5adeb2082bb7dd4e3978822

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [20%] it 10 or 20%?
  [2022] in 2022 to offset the Russian supply
  [10%] &gt;&gt; 20% yeah. 10% is a correction. That's
  [2020] and April of 2020. That was when we were
  [119.50] &gt;&gt; Almost 120. 119.50.
  [8%] absolutely. I mean, it's still up 8%
  [2014] ISIS took Mosul in in Iraq in 2014,
  [2003] invasion of Iraq in 2003. But them like
  [2027] remains closed until 2027,
  [1980] 1980s, at the peak of the kind of
  [25%] a specific punitive 25% tariff
  [1970] Nixon ala the 1970s oil shocks and not

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
radio, news.
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. And I'm Tracy Alloway.
Tracy, did you see that oil is already
technically in a bear market?
definition of a bear market is down Is
it 10 or 20%?
right. Okay, so it's down 20% from the
high of I think Brent was at something
like 120 per barrel.
However, it's still up quite a bit from
where it was like a week ago. Oh, yeah,
absolutely. I mean, it's still up 8%
from Friday. I mean, that's how crazy
the oil market is right now. That
lose all meaning, I feel, right?
the context, just extraordinary surge. I
think one of the things that's
surprising to me or not maybe not
surprising, but notable to me, and we'll
get into this with our guest, of course,
in a minute, is that Iran war risk was
well known. The price of oil had already
been creeping higher a bit even prior to
the first attack. So, this was already a
concern, but it sort of goes to show
like how I don't know exactly what the
term is, how unexpected or how the
degree to which basically this was not
priced in. The fact that traders were
already very keen and aware that there
was a very high possibility of a strike
in Iran, and yet we've just seen this
absolutely massive surge in just the
span of, you know, 10 days, really.
Well, the thing that's happening now is
because we had pretty good oil supplies
out there at the beginning of the year,
that's kind of become, I guess, a
vulnerability because you had a lot of
oil in floating storage, for instance.
But, that means now the floating storage
is filled and it can't go anywhere
because you can't get through the Strait
of Hormuz, and therefore all the new
production is getting shut in a lot
faster than it would be otherwise. So,
it feels like some of the buffers that
we had are kind of turning into, I
guess, vulnerabilities. Yeah, totally
right. Now, the thing with a lot of
commodity people is that, and I love
them, so this is but [laughter] the
thing
No, but a lot of them are like sort of,
I don't know, like perma-doomers,
like sort of a little bit crankish, a
little bit more always thinking about
risks and so forth and ways that things
could go bad and how it could go back to
the Stone Age if we don't have the
free-flowing commodities of all sorts.
And again, I love them all, but someone
else pointed I forget who tweeted it
over the weekend, but they said like
even the least alarmist, I think it was
might have been Stinson Dean, actually.
He said, "Even the least alarmist people
in the commodity space are very alarmed
right now." And so,
yeah, people are talking about this
being one of the worst oil shocks ever.
I mean, it's very extreme. Joe, if you
worked in an industry whose lifeblood
was the liquefied remains of prehistoric
organisms and there was a finite amount
that you knew one day was going to run
out, you'd be a doomer, too. You're
right. Well, we're going to be speaking
with someone who is not a doomer,
overall very pleasant fellow, but is
someone who is quite alarmed, who thinks
that oil could actually go to $200 a
barrel quite plausibly, depending on how
the war unfolds. I'm very excited. We
haven't talked to him in a while, but a
nod lads' favorite here. We're going to
be speaking with Rory Johnston, founder
of Commodity Context, all around oil
nerd, he even teaches at the University
of Toronto. So, Rory, thank you so much
for coming back on Odd Lots.
Thanks for having me back, guys. Let's
start with this idea that Iran war risk
was already very much on the radar of
traders long before the strikes. The
price had been creeping up, and now
we've seen this huge surge. So, we were
at about I'm looking at the Brent chart.
We were just over $72 a barrel the
weekend before the attack, currently
right around 100. What has happened in
the last, you know, just over a week
that's been so far beyond what traders
might have been anticipated? Yeah, so I
think you very kindly described me as a
reasonable person. I I agree that I
think a lot of people in the commodity
space have a kind of a permabullish
bias. And I think for many of the
reasons Tracy mentioned, when I first
got into the industry, I was very much
like that. Oh oh my goodness, you know,
ISIS took Mosul in in Iraq in 2014,
we're going to, you know, crazy levels.
But I think what we've discovered and
what's been reinforced repeatedly over
the past half decade is just how
flexible and resilient the oil market
is. We've dealt with everything from
COVID to Russia's invasion of Ukraine to
Houthis in the Red Sea to a full-blown
attacks with Iran and Israel last year.
It's gone through a lot, and despite
that, the market has been shockingly
shockingly resilient. These were all the
things that we used to kind of stress
the market with. But I think the
difference is, I think this is kind of
almost in some ways the market's gotten
used to the wrong lesson here, you know,
rather than being doomers, we've gotten
overly sanguine because the market is
able to fix all of these problems. And I
think the market is shockingly
shockingly good at this. But this is one
of those problems, the closure of the
Strait of Hormuz is something that
can't really be fixed by markets. It's
so large and so physical, and you would
kind of mentioned like why this kind of
confounded expectations. You would
mentioned so, you know, over the prior
month or so we had built in upwards of
$10 a barrel largely of Iran risk mostly
from speculative participants kind of
anticipating this. And again, it wasn't
a it wasn't a secret. We had the largest
build-up of US military personnel and
equipment in the Middle East since the
invasion of Iraq in 2003. But them like
myself, I never expected this to happen.
I never expected to see this particular
shock in my lifetime. This was the kind
of this is the scenario that you give
new analysts in the industry as kind of
a thought experiment of, "Okay, if this
happened, how would everything break?"
Because I think it's actually a very
illustrative and educational thought
experiment. It's terrifying to be kind
of speed running it in real time. So, on
this note, when something like the
events of the past week happen, how much
of an oil analyst's job is actually
thinking about supply chain adaptations
and where oil could get rerouted versus
just thinking geopolitics and becoming
an armchair military expert in thinking
like, "Well, this is when the conflict
might actually end." I think it's more
on the supply chain. And I think when we
as oil analysts like look at charts and
data, what we're really trying to do is
both I mean I think honestly to
understand, you know, and see where the
price of oil is in any given day, but
more kind of looking at what those
signals tell us about what's happening
in the underlying market.
And when you have such a massive
dislocation like we're facing right now,
none of those signals act like they
usually do. They're all flying in all
different directions in crazy fashion
because this is such a massive massive
loss. And just again, just to put in
perspective for people what we're
talking about because someone that's not
aware of the market say, "Oh, well, 20%
of the market, 20 million barrels a day
that flow through Hormuz, yeah, that's
we could deal with that, right?" But
that's actually so 20 million barrels is
the peak of COVID demand loss in March
and April of 2020. That was when we were
all locked inside, when airports were
empty and planes were grounded. That was
the type of demand destruction that 20%
looked like. And now, if the straight
remains closed, and I think this is the
critical part here. Whether it's the war
or whatever, and we could talk about all
the ways that this could you know, the
nuances in the way you got to, you know,
……（中部抽样）……
slippage and leakage. But if the
without a pandemic. Just via price
We'd already seen jet fuel in Asia hit
destruction, not crude itself.
by that? Yeah, so you and I as global
exactly. Unsuccessfully, but yeah.
you know, what we actually consume, jet
refineries consume crude. So what we
supply and demand curve, as you, you
everything else, you know, shipping
complicated very quickly. But to
roughly where we're trading right now on
of different products. The premiums they
product that that that is yielded from a
costs and everything else. But what's
consequences in the crude oil market is
Go of Sparta Commodities for educating
as they can, running as fast as they can
shutting down a facility is the
kind of turn back on properly and it
refiners are doing, these are the
terms of feed stock, they're
can remain in the market at all. So this
those cargoes to get to where they're
down, but with the refiners in Asia in
product markets immediately.
supply shocks and, you know, the release
going so that they don't have to start
to release from the stockpiles. And I
So, who knows what will happen by the
from the SPR. Talk to us about the pros
this is the mother of all supply risk.
reason, the scenario precisely that the
tapped the reserve already. And I think
administration for releasing SPR stocks
thought that was a clear national
we're going to lose so much oil from
now, this is also a very good purpose of
to the Department of Energy. Most of the
need to get that money back again. But I
of 300 to 400 million barrels is what
you could explain why they could say no.
chest. On that, I would say one of the
crisis is already really, really bad,
rate itself can't keep up. So, if
question of like, maybe, you know,
Ottawa, you know, they were talking
and we're all going to be better off.
shocked we are this far down the road. I
going to see how long he remains to have
short-lived geopolitical sentiment
reportedly musing, which is even more
Something that the Biden administration
was a really, really bad idea. That I
the world now. But not only are crude
there's regional issues that the US Gulf
you start closing these borders off, all
President Trump would want, but I no
the SPR, you would have thought about
the striking things to me. At least from
market re- I mean, it's almost hard to
I certainly get the same impression as
you know, we're $90 a barrel at the end
sort of relationship between the
be like, yeah, we're paying a price
longer and longer, to what degree does
listening to actually your podcast on
that this gets worse every single day it
like you can think of it very simply as
petroleum flows.
garden hose. If the conflict had ended
things would get back to normal pretty
plus days into this, we now have the
addition to this kind of kink in the
Iraq and Kuwait in particular, both of
decades and decades, they have been
southern Basra fields. That is alone.
sent the market, you know, ripping
We only lost one briefly and it came
more storage capacity and a bit more
divert some of the flow. Similarly with
Arabia can get bombed. If we get to an
systems can all be broken. So, you've
resumed, even if flow resumed tomorrow.
Asia, like I said, you've already begun
much of it typically. So, I think part
inventory cover, and all the things all
now." So, I think even if this resolved
that's going to need to work itself out.
resembling normal. And it doesn't look
I have what is perhaps a silly question,
know that airlines will go bankrupt
as long as you are physically or
between the elasticity of price versus
destruction, we think about primarily
got so high they crashed the economy and
not talking like we're talking serious
know, two months. So, there's that's the
fairly high tolerance for high prices.
illustrative of this in the LNG market
diverted and ended up in Europe because
dictated, but I think the human cost was
scenario where the Strait of Hormuz
massive demand destruction from
first place. So, you and I would see
energy, etc., etc. But, the barrels
highest prices. But, other lower-income
I think, is how demand destruction in
potentially. Can you walk us through the
why that number seems realistic. Yeah,
numbers at this stage. Like the numbers
the price or higher and higher and
predicated on this assumption that the
1980s, at the peak of the kind of
were either sunk or scuttled entirely.
period, you never actually had a
In this instance, it's effectively shut.
really seen this before. So, if this
destruction, so I think that's one way
note here is crude prices are probably
to them.
compelling economic incentive to take
to afford the exceptionally expensive
we're trying to basically incentivize
through the strait to deliver this fuel,
attractive solution, which is why again
and people keep criticizing me. They're
that's probably true. It's not just
still probably the most important
think that's probably where we need to
something about OPEC's relevance today,
the Gulf and start firing up output
of short circuits the OPEC's normal
the Strait of Hormuz. It's in Iraq,
why the Strait of Hormuz was always the
within OPEC plus that is likely the
you know, the Trump administration had
Russia. Venezuela, we have a regime
prioritizing the the war in Ukraine and
India, which was the one of the largest
everything else,
sanctions, or like the hefty off, you
largest crude oil exporting companies.
were afraid of the sanctions risk. But
of Russian oil. So, over that kind of
about 1 million barrels a day. So, they
wasn't finding many other buyers. So,
ending up. So, the prices for these,
building up on water.
meaningfully if that continued. Now,
on the world is Russia. So, India's back
I mentioned previously. So, they're
clamoring about easing sanctions or
overwhelmingly serves the interests of
events with that, isn't it? You brought
headline already. This idea of curbing
them, let's just keep it all at home,
fine thing. Walk us through like why you
two or three weeks, it would result in
kind of too much of a good thing.
States, where you have all of the outlet
You see a lot of diesel exports, about a
and other areas. If you banned exports,
Gulf Coast. So you would start
……（接近结尾）……
these countries likely will not run out
of fuel. They'll just get very, very
expensive. These policies that the White
House could impose could create a
situation of outright scarcity and
shortages in North America in a way that
we wouldn't be able to pay to get around
them because this whole point so purpose
is to avoid [music] that pump price
spike, but in in doing so you would end
up creating outright shortages instead.
Rory Johnston, it's been too long. I was
going to say we should chat more often,
but you know, I don't want to chat again
too soon because that would be a very
bad sign, but it's very possible that we
might be calling on you again, but thank
you so much for
Thanks so much for having me guys.
Always a pleasure.
Rory. I thought that was great. I think
one of the interesting dynamics which I
hadn't fully appreciated is that spread
between the products and the price of
crude.
understand why the jet fuel market or
you know, had blown out quite so crazy,
but it makes intuitive sense that when
there's such concern about the capacity
at all to get the input that they have
to already just sort of start slowing
down their pace. Let me just say I don't
like it. I don't like talking to Rory
about how the hypothetical doom
scenarios that every oil analyst has
been thinking about for decades and
decades are now coming to pass and
turning into actual reality. That's not
very fun. But if we're going to talk to
one person about what's happening right
now, I think Rory is a very good person
to talk to. Someone who is not naturally
doomerish in his thinking, but is
nevertheless quite concerned about the
current state of affairs. I think the
risks from a sort of global stability
perspective are very bad when you start
thinking about, okay, here is this war
that the US and Israel launched and then
the ramifications could be that a lot of
the world's poorer countries just get
completely shut off or have to deal with
like crippling oil austerity. The the
fallout from that again setting aside
the specific market fallout and how long
it would take to get the oil market back
to normal the sort of broader fallout
from that dynamic specifically that
everyone's oil prices go up massively or
get cut off strike me as a very
disturbing potential. Well, the other
thing that's rather disturbing is this
idea of Russia as the new swing
producer. Right? And you know, Russia we
all know has strategic goals. You can
imagine a scenario where it very
strategic and political in its decisions
of who gets oil where. So, lots to think
about. Lots to think about. Yeah, cuz
you especially if Europe starts to
soften a little bit on Russian energy. I
don't know. All kinds of weird dominoes
that I think are going to be knocked
over because of this beyond just the
extraordinary price surge. And
meanwhile, lots and lots of episodes
that we need to record. So,
not just oil, we also want to talk about
fertilizer and given the news from
today, it looks like we're going to have
to do a Jones Act episode as well. Jones
Act, SPR, we have a lot to come. It's
all coming. All right, shall we leave it
there for now? Let's leave it there.
This has been another episode of the Odd
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe
Weisenthal. You can follow me at The
Stalwart. Follow our guest Rory
Johnston. He's at rory_johnston.
Follow our producers Carmen Rodriguez at
carmenurman, Dash Bennett at dashbot,
and Keil Brooks and Keil Brooks. And for
more Odd Lots content, go to
bloomberg.com/oddlots
for the daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 24/7 in our Discord
discord.gg/oddlots.
And if you enjoy Odd Lots, if you like
emergency episodes, then please leave us
a positive review on your favorite
podcast [music] platform. And remember,
if you are a Bloomberg subscriber, you
can listen to all of our episodes
absolutely ad-free. All you need to do
Apple Podcasts and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.