TITLE: How China Made Itself Tariff-Proof
CHANNEL: The Daily
DURATION_S: 1897  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-24T14:35:38+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=djE7MDOyFLs
SHA256: 6655d2eea685eb6074cfd99c140aa73ac3668d055f9fca1764bd7fd5866e5a68

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1.2] immense last year when it reached 1.2
  [10000] 10,000 manufacturing workers
  [2010] mid-2010s.
  [2017] manufacturing came at the start of 2017.
  [1991] &gt;&gt; Since 1991, yes. Thank you. Okay, close
  [2006] in 2006, I noticed in seventh grade, she
  [2015] 2015 was they did a 10-year plan for
  [2025] in China 2025.
  [140000] would have cost me $140,000.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
From The New York Times, I'm Natalie
About a year into Trump's global trade
war, China hasn't just survived. It's
emerged stronger [music] than ever on
the world stage. And that's because
after years [music] of careful planning,
China has essentially made itself
tariff-proof.
Today, [music] my colleague Keith
Bradshaw explains how despite Trump's
best efforts, China's robot-powered
super factories
Keith, it's been about 1 year of tariffs
on China, 1 year of, I think it's fair
to say, economic war on China. A crazy
year, honestly, which was capped off by
a Supreme Court ruling saying many of
these tariffs were illegal.
And what we're here to do today is
figure out what did the last year amount
to?
And you are here because you've been
covering trade for approximately 1
billion years. Is that right?
to a billion. And so, what we want is
for you to help us understand what these
tariffs have wrought when it comes to
China.
These tariffs are changing China's trade
in important ways, but not nearly as
much as the Trump administration
expected. Yes, China's not shipping as
much to the United States as it was
before.
But China's also not buying as much from
the United States as it was before.
The overall trade surplus of China, how
much its exports exceed how much it's
buying from the rest of the world, is
still growing. It became even more
immense last year when it reached 1.2
trillion dollars. 1.2 trillion. Just put
that in context, how big of a deal is
that?
1.2 trillion is bigger than the
economies of most of the countries in
the world.
And what was particularly striking about
it was that the trade surplus for China
in manufactured goods, which create a
lot of jobs, a lot of high-skilled,
well-paid jobs, that trade surplus was
even bigger. China's truly become the
factory of the world, the dominant
producer of everything from basic
materials like steel and chemicals, all
the way through electric cars and solar
panels.
The upshot of what you're saying, Keith,
is that the most aggressive tariffs
against China in decades
didn't really stop China from dominating
in manufacturing.
Why? What explains that?
There are four reasons. One, China
ramped up its sales in a hurry to other
markets, not just in Asia, but in
Africa, Latin America, and in Europe.
Second, China ramped up sales of goods
that are indirectly reaching the United
States.
Like exporting the parts of a vacuum
cleaner or some other system that then
gets assembled in another country and
then shipped into the United States. So,
a lot of indirect shipments to the
United States through other countries.
Third, China has managed to weaken its
currency a lot.
That makes China's goods
much cheaper in foreign markets, and it
makes foreign goods, like American goods
or European goods, very expensive in
China.
But the last reason, and in some ways
the most important reason, why China is
producing such enormous
trade surpluses, is that it is years
ahead right now in advanced
manufacturing. Mhm. Pretty much anything
can be made less expensively in China
than anywhere else.
They're not just the least expensive
place to make clothing or furniture.
Now, they're the least expensive place
to make cars, batteries, all these other
technologies.
And a big part of that is because
they're making them in very advanced
factories with more robots than anyone
else in the world. Okay, just to spell
this out, you're saying because China's
factories are just so automated, the
country's able to produce a ton of
stuff, even advanced products, extremely
cheaply. So cheaply that China has
become almost immune to Trump's tariffs.
They're not completely immune, but they
are a lot more resistant than anyone
else expected. Okay.
So, I want to understand what exactly
does that automation inside China's
factories look like?
Let me tell you about a car factory I
visited some months ago in eastern
China.
The very start of the process is making
which used to be made mostly out of
steel. This was making it out of
aluminum, which is lighter weight, works
better with an electric car.
It's much harder to do, but they were
doing it in a more advanced way than you
see practically anywhere else.
There are robotic sleds carrying bars of
aluminum to an automated elevator, up up
up up to the top of a machine the size
of a McMansion in the United States.
was enormous.
And the elevator automatically dumps the
aluminum ingots in a furnace, and that
furnace turns them into molten aluminum
that is then poured into precisely the
shapes of the various car body
components that are needed. [music]
And then those car parts
are taken, still by human drivers with
forklifts, although that will be
automated at some point as well,
into a very large warehouse from which
they then feed the assembly line.
The assembly line is 820 robots. [music]
It's a so-called dark factory. Dark
factory because humans aren't involved,
and robots don't need light to function.
That's exactly right. You can turn off
the lights, they keep making whatever
they're making,
components
into the skeleton of the car.
Now, some of that you find elsewhere in
other car factories elsewhere in the
world, but the integration of everything
is very impressive. It was also using
artificial intelligence. Cameras were
taking lots of pictures of the finished
car and comparing them in detail to a
database of other cars that were viewed
as very well put together and
identifying if there were any flaws that
needed to be corrected. So, AI is doing
quality control in this case. AI is
doing quality control. AI is involved in
tracking practically every step in the
process.
What you're seeing in China, more than
any other country, is the adaptation
of AI to manufacturing.
And how does that compare to what you
see in the rest of the world, to the
rest of the world's factories?
So, other countries are no longer as
automated. In fact, Germany, Japan, the
United States
now have factories that are less
automated, that have fewer robots than
China. China now has
a higher number of robots for every
10,000 manufacturing workers
than any of those three countries.
China also is installing more factory
robots each year now than the entire
rest of the world combined. How did
China get to the point where it is more
advanced at manufacturing than the US,
than Germany, than Japan? These are
countries that were all known at one
point for being manufacturing titans,
for specializing in this. How did China
get here?
The rise of advanced manufacturing in
China is a remarkable story. It's not
just
an economic story.
It's also an education story, it's a
culture story, it's a demographic story.
You have to go back to the
mid-2010s.
China had really already emerged as the
world's number one manufacturing power.
But that wasn't all they wanted to do.
They didn't want to just be
the manufacturing power that made the
most things. They wanted to make [music]
the best things, the most advanced
technology products. At the same time,
though, the supply of young Chinese
workers has peaked [music] and is
rapidly dropping thanks to stringent
family planning policies. China was
starting to realize that its so-called
one-child policy had produced an
unintended result. The policy
significantly reduced birth rates,
especially in rural areas, the source
from which the bulk of China's floating
labor population comes. China had been
restricting families from having more
than one child
for several decades by then, and the
policy had gone too far. [music]
The birth rate was collapsing. As
……（中部抽样）……
Americans struggle with pink slips,
signs seeking workers. Right now, there
laborers. This recruiter says, "The
So much of a drop they began worrying,
coming into the workforce?
China to find ways to get the same work
without having nearly remotely as many
available for work, there are concerns
the fast economic growth that has
second largest economy after the United
In the United States, immigration has
allows almost no immigration whatsoever.
In China, it's several thousand 10-year
even a a full green card. It's just 10
In a vast country, China has fewer
even North Korea.
falling birth rate, China just doesn't
the world's factory, especially as their
have enough workers unless it does an
Because this is not just about a
also about fewer and fewer workers who
And why? Why don't people want these
because they are much, much
generation.
everything they had into making sure
education.
Northwestern China, the father is an
nothing in illegal coal mines. The
works as a checkout clerk in a corner
But they put everything into training
going every 2 years to meet that family
was already doing algebra that was ahead
And here she was in a tiny village going
illiterate, and she did go off to
And so the result is a nation of not
than half the young people are college
And the last thing they want to do is a
doing the same assembly day after day.
that working with your hands is somehow
writing.
reluctant to see their only child take a
shares that reluctance. So while the
is still producing a vast cornucopia of
between these vast, numerous factories
went to college and are often wary of
The result, as the 2010s unfolded, was a
among business leaders and government
tomorrow going to come from?
was to create a very ambitious program
We'll be right back.
do? How did China become, I think it's
the world?
on plans. It's a country that still does
2015 was they did a 10-year plan for
in China 2025.
major sectors. Whether it was
materials like rare earth magnets.
really wanted to move ahead in robotics.
robotics? Just explain that to me. China
makes advanced products. China also
the equipment to produce advanced
semiconductors, whether it's for
panels,
categories involves a lot of automation.
doing the robotics, the factory
advanced products. So they're not just
planes or semiconductors.
and the equipment and the technology
things. Like building advanced factories
robotics, you're saying, was essential
really trying to make sure that the
manufacturing happens in China. It's not
latest factory equipment from the West.
latest factory equipment themselves and
And so how did China execute this Made
projects in incredible sums.
government investment funds going into
kinds of areas. Well, China has been on
know, announcing an unprecedented $207
acquisitions this year. If you want to
in China's advances in the latest
Some breaking news coming through on the
the US has given a green light to the
the Chinese company that wants to buy
allowed by the United States and Germany
many ways led the world in making
the time how important this was. If you
moving up the food chain here in China
manufacturing, innovation, robotics,
It bought KUKA, the German robot maker,
factories all over the world for 30
those factories.
sudden, that know-how,
shifted to China.
made in Shanghai. And the knowledge
build robots, but everything the robots
and to the rest of China as well.
expertise wholesale. They bought the
expertise to China. Exactly right.
What's remarkable is that China has
automation and makes it in such enormous
find advanced robots in car factories.
operations. So last year, for example, I
of small storefront workshops
went to a small operation that was just
backyard barbecues for sale to local
something pretty basic. Very basic. 10
the street even though the temperature
Several guys with welding torches, big
very basic. And yet the owner said, "I'm
out? How is How does that make sense for
ago, if I wanted to buy a robot to
would have cost me $140,000.
all that needs to happen is one of my
together these sheets of steel to make
Chinese supplied system watches exactly
then automatically programs the robot to
Incredible. Even in China, with wages
it's now cost-effective, he said, to
workers, with a robot. Because he said,
hours a day.
hard to find workers these days who want
welding, which is hot work, in a store
How do workers feel about this, Keith?
idea of automating all these factory
I can imagine in China, it also might
But, at the same time, you've said
to take these factory jobs. So, how's it
There is far less hostility to
know about. Because right now, there are
workers.
just going up and up and up with
automation is often the same number of
And where are all these goods going?
going to other countries. So, the
because of China's rise in automation
countries that have not invested as much
latest quality control and in the latest
Germany, for example, is losing close to
and a big, big part of that is the rapid
business from Germany's factories. And
not an issue for factory workers in
you're not actually seeing the main
as opposed to it.
of catching up? And is it fair to assume
China, we'd have to make factories more
as possible?
competitive if it doesn't start
factory automation. There has been some
automation in the car industry in the
But, the car industry in the United
dependent the rest of the world is
Car factories in the United States now
China. There is a product that is more
that stamps steel sheets into the shapes
those huge, highly automated pieces of
factories are also being shipped by
factories because the United States
competitive in that category. It's
either way, China wins. If we want to
to do that. That's increasingly true.
and Korean equipment, but a lot of the
made in China. So, China now has a broad
technologies, and is determined to hold
invest in preserving that lead. I want
the purpose of competing with China on
makes me wonder if we actually do
to the US, will that mean that we
people seem to want? In China, you've
anymore, but in the US, a lot of people
Trump because they thought he was going
But, what you've described is a future
probably going to look a lot different,
Today's factories are much more pleasant
ago, and certainly much more pleasant
are better, the noise is less, the air
All of this automation does mean that
……（接近结尾）……
market, automation will gradually erode
the total number of jobs, but you end up
with different kinds of jobs. You end up
with jobs in designing the robots that
make things instead of doing a rote task
again and again. You end up with jobs
creating new products. China has that
industrial chain, and the question is
whether the US, which to some extent had
that chain 30 or 40 years ago, can
manage to revive it.
I'm wondering, Keith, just to turn back
to Trump's tariffs on China, if so far,
they haven't stopped the country from
exporting so much stuff across the
world,
why is the Trump administration still
trying to reinstate tariffs against
China? We've heard of these new
investigations into unfair trade
practices that supposedly will put the
US on the path to slapping new tariffs
on China. Why do that if it doesn't
actually seem that tariffs stood a
chance?
It's very hard for American
manufacturers to compete at all if they
face a constant flood of very low-priced
Chinese goods. So, the goal of having
tariffs is to provide some shelter from
this vast influx of Chinese goods
while American manufacturing begins to
find its feet again.
But, that is a very difficult task.
steep tariffs on imports is that tariffs
by themselves have not yet produced a
big, broad revitalization of the
American manufacturing sector. But, that
doesn't mean that tariffs are a bad
idea.
What it means is that [snorts]
many economists now say tariffs should
only be part of a broader range of
measures, strengthening the training of
American workers,
helping companies invest in the latest
technologies, working with other
countries to prevent there being used as
simply pass-throughs for inexpensive
Chinese goods,
taking a broader look at what is needed
to revitalize American manufacturing
at a time when the United States does
have very real national security
concerns
given China's very close relationships
with Russia, with Iran, with North
Korea,
with many governments that the United
States is worried about.
thanks so much for coming back on the
show. Thank you so much. Always good to
talk to you, Natalie.
Here's what else you need to know today.
postponing strikes on Iran's power
plants until at least Friday because the
US and Iran were engaging in, ,
"very good and productive [music]
conversations."
But, Iran denied any direct talks with
the US, and cast the claim as a ploy by
Trump to soothe markets and buy time
Whatever the truth, the war continued to
rage on multiple fronts. [music]
The US and Israel said they'd carried
out new waves of strikes on Iran, and
Israel [music] continued its offensive
in Lebanon.
And the Senate voted Monday to confirm
Senator Mark Wayne Mullen, a Trump ally,
to run the Department of Homeland
Security.
He'll be replacing [music] Kirstjen
Nielsen.
Two Democrats joined Republicans to
confirm Mullen, who [music] stressed his
willingness to work with both parties.
Mullen has taken the reins of DHS,
enforcement, at a critical moment.
Thousands of employees [music]
are working without pay during a partial
government shutdown that began more than
a month ago [music] after Democrats held
up funding for the agency over their
demands to rein [music] in immigration
officers.
The shutdown has led to long security
lines and scenes of chaos at airports
across the country.
Finally, the Federal Aviation
Administration is investigating whether
an air traffic controller was distracted
by a separate [music] incident at the
time of a deadly crash at LaGuardia
Airport on Sunday [music] night.
The collision between an Air Canada jet
and a fire [music] truck killed two
pilots, injured dozens of people, and
temporarily shut down LaGuardia,
nation.
Today's episode [music] was produced by
Ricky Navetsky, Stella Tan, and Claire
Tennesketer. It was edited by Lisa Chow
Wong, Marion Lozano, and Elisabeth
Wonderly.
This episode was engineered by Chris
Wood.
Natalie Kitroeff. See you tomorrow.