TITLE: Chosen by War: The Rise of Iran’s New Supreme Leader
CHANNEL: The Daily
DURATION_S: 2035  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-17T14:23:31+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IUIWJByY3rw
SHA256: c5f85dc9e4aaceb659782b1ff239f2a1df9d666bbd7ab15ddaa2edd90ea71902

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1979] Revolution in 1979
  [2015] security apparatus. He led the 2015
  [1969] Mojtaba Khamenei was born in 1969.
  [2009] the 2009
  [20%] that 20% that's the core constituents.
  [80%] You had talked about the 80% of Iranians

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
From The New York Times, I'm Michael
are hearing for the [music] first time
from the new supreme leader of Iran.
Today's statement dismissed any [music]
hope of Iran backing down. He says,
"Quote, avenging the blood of your
martyrs is a top priority, and that
attacks [music] on Gulf Arab neighbors
will continue." At the heart of the
Iranian [music] regime's defiant stance
toward the United States and Israel in
this war is its new supreme leader,
Mojtaba Khamenei, the son of the
regime's long-time ruler. [music] He has
said that all US bases should
immediately be closed in the region,
and he says that those bases will be
attacked as well.
should [music] remain closed as a Today,
my colleague, Farnaz Fassihi, on the
extraordinary [music]
behind-the-scenes jockeying that led to
his selection, and the growing consensus
motivated Iran to replace one hardline
leader [music]
with another.
Farnaz, welcome back to the show. I just
want to say at the outset that there are
moments when our colleagues, because of
their area of expertise,
just become indispensable to The Daily,
and you're one of those people. Now,
because you know Iran and its government
inside and out, so thank you for making
time for us. Thank you for having me,
Michael.
Your latest line of reporting has been
focused on Iran's new supreme leader
Mojtaba Khamenei, the son of the
assassinated supreme leader.
And Mojtaba Khamenei is filling a job
that is both essential for the regime's
survival and arguably now the most
dangerous job in the world. And we want
to talk to you about what his selection
means for Iran and the war and the
behind-the-scenes process by which he
was chosen. So, where do you think we
should start?
I think we should start by acknowledging
that Mojtaba Khamenei's rise as the
third supreme leader came as a surprise
to even Iran watchers and insiders in
Iran. Although he was his father's son
and had been working closely with him in
his office, the fact that he would
become a supreme leader and succeed his
father was not straightforward, it
wasn't necessarily predestined, and it's
an irony because the Islamic Revolution
came about so there would be an end to
monarchy rule and power being passed
from father to son.
Revolution in 1979
came about as a result of this movement
to topple the Shah and thousands of
years of monarchy where power was handed
from father to son with this idea that
power would go back to the people. Even
when the first supreme leader, the
founding father of the revolution,
Ayatollah Khomeini, died, power didn't
go to his son or to his relatives, it
went to then the president, the former
Ayatollah Khomeini. So, that's why it's
an irony to now have his son appointed
as his successor. Fascinating. So, the
choice of Khamenei's son, Mojtaba
Khamenei, you're saying
is in many ways a violation of the
revolution's core spirit. So, talk to us
about how that ever would have occurred
over the past many days.
When I talked to sources in Iran about
the appointment and selection of Mojtaba
Khamenei, they described it as a
succession war.
generals from the Revolutionary Guards,
powerful people like the former spy
chief of the Guards, and clerics all
vying for power to have the candidate
that they preferred in the role. It was
explained to me as sort of the Islamic
Republic's version of Game of Thrones,
vying for power, different factions
competing to have their favorite
candidate in, and really as a war of
succession. Wow. Well, describe these
main factions in this selection process,
who they are and what they want.
So, constitutionally
in Iran, the Assembly of Experts, which
is a body of 88 elected senior clerics,
has the task of appointing, supervising,
and removing a supreme leader. So, this
is the body that had to get together,
debate, and vote for who would basically
succeed Ayatollah Khamenei. But, it's
much more complicated than that, right?
There's all this like backdoor and
back-channeling powers and different
factions trying to influence the vote of
the clerics.
and the pragmatics led by the head of
the National Security Council, Ali
Larijani, and President Pezeshkian in
this camp. And they were sort of arguing
that this is really an extraordinary
moment in Iran, we're at war with the
United States and Israel, we've had
months and months of upheaval with
protests and whatnot, and maybe it's
time to put a new face on the regime and
pick a candidate that would at least
signal to the world and to Iranian
public that we're thinking of moderating
our policies or we're thinking of
reform. So basically recognize that the
war is a fundamental breaking point.
It's a moment from which the country
cannot really go back that a change is
required here. Exactly. The war, don't
forget, was preceded with massive street
uprisings and protests by Iranians
saying we want an end of this regime. So
while they can't really satisfy that
desire, I think the moderates were
arguing, well, at least maybe this power
vacuum we have from the assassination of
the Ayatollah allows us a space to try
to steer the country in a different
direction. And for us, who do these
moderates, and I want to be careful with
that word, because moderates within a
theocracy may not resemble moderates
outside of a theocracy, but who do they
look to specifically
as they try to make this choice?
Well, they were looking at several
candidates. One of them was former
President Hassan Rouhani. He's mostly a
centrist politician who served eight
years as president and before that had
very senior leadership roles in in
security apparatus. He led the 2015
negotiations, nuclear negotiations with
the United States and world powers. And
he's increasingly become vocal in giving
speeches about how the status quo was
not tenable. So the second candidate was
Hassan Khomeini, the grandson of the
founding father of the revolution, who
is clearly identified his politics as
reformist and he's part of the reformist
faction. And then there was a third
candidate who is not very well known in
the public, Alireza Arafi. He has
religious credentials. He ran a very
successful charity, religious charity,
and he was sort of considered as someone
who would be easy to manage because he
didn't really have experience in
security or policy or defense, and sort
of would fall somewhere in the middle.
So, all three of these say to the world,
to varying degrees, turn the page on
the revolutionary hardline Iranian ethos
that has dominated since 1979.
That was basically the idea. Now, with
the caveat, as you mentioned, that these
are all still part of the Islamic
Republic's establishment, and they are
loyal to the ideology of the Islamic
Republic, but they have varying shades
of how to pragmatically and practically
practice that and enforce it. And I
think if they had gone this way, they
would have at least signaled that maybe
we're open to change, maybe we're even
open to scaling down hostilities with
the United States. But, that's not how
it went. Clearly. Okay, well, what about
the hardline
faction?
the Revolutionary Guards Corps, they
were interested in making sure that,
first of all, at wartime, there would be
no concessions made, no surrendering to
US demands, that sort of the policies
and strategies that the Ayatollah and
the Guards had defined would hold as the
war continued. The Revolutionary Guards
are very powerful in Iran. They're
represented in politics, they control
the economy, they are more powerful than
the military, the army itself, and
they're now in charge of basically
commanding this war because they're in
charge of defending Iran's borders. So,
for the Guards, the election or the
appointment of the Supreme Leader was
was also an existential choice because
they wanted to make sure that their
power and their grip on power remains.
And who is in this hardline faction's
pool of candidates for supreme leader?
This pool wanted Mojtaba Khamenei.
Unanimously, he was the candidate of
……（中部抽样）……
choice.
Ayatollah Khamenei, who would continue
hand, particularly in running this war.
toss out this whole idea of power should
Republic. Interesting. They just sort of
about in the middle of this conflict.
basically said, "This is wartime. The
former supreme leader, or they consider
and resentment against President Trump
fueled into the sense of defiance,
in Iran and outside of Iran said that,
death, Mojtaba would have a lot of
hardliners could argue that, 'Look, you
and who is the closest thing we can get
looks like him, but also worked in his
same ideological beliefs and policies.'"
the formal process of choosing Mojtaba
it as filled with intrigue and drama,
The process of selecting the supreme
almost immediately after Ayatollah
first day of the war.
influencing and whatnot. So, you know,
fueled with this idea that we have to be
face is not our priority. What's our
continue our revolutionary ideology.
government, "Now we have a supreme
supposed to announce it the next morning
plan kind of fell apart. Why? Well,
and we reported it, it was a New York
leading candidate. Both President Trump
to eliminate the next successor to the
So, Iranians paused. They thought that
announce Mojtaba as the supreme leader
And this provides space for the
to get the assembly to recede at the
like, "Okay, now it hasn't been
Maybe we have some time to try to now
get them to change their minds." Right.
moderation was perhaps the right course,
saying, "We're going to kill this
Ayatollah" might fuel your case. So, how
unraveling this choice? Well, first of
right? It wasn't going to be easy to get
called for the Assembly's Leadership
them in person.
the moderates put a card on the table
They brought two of his father's closest
his chief of staff
advisors to testify to the Assembly of
Ayatollah Khomeini, had told them he had
succeed him. Oh, wow. There are people
that the last supreme leader does not
leader.
was like literally his two closest
bring a letter in writing from Mr.
we're unsealing it, and here
leader." This really is Game of Thrones.
thrown at them saying, "You need [music]
that suggests this is not what Ayatollah
So, the hardliners and the generals in
launch a counteroffensive [music]
Mojtaba Khomeini. So, the generals and a
Hussein Taeb, personally called members
to meet virtually and have an emergency
On Sunday, March 8th, the assembly held
received the [music] 2/3 majority of
for a second time, but this time it's
sealed the deal.
you've just described and all of this
trying to undermine the other side,
person as supreme leader because of the
and Israel being at war with Iran.
not at war right now and under attack by
had not been killed by air strikes,
supreme leader.
who is this new supreme leader? And is
him and the moderate who feared him
Mojtaba Khamenei is a mysterious figure,
He [snorts]
He's always operated in the shadows of
supreme leader, no one has heard his
issued two statements, but I've spent
Iran who know him or who have met him to
will rule Iran.
come to understand about this new
support of hardliners, remains such a
Mojtaba Khamenei was born in 1969.
Revolution came about and theocracy was
And as his father sort of rose in the
becoming the president and then as the
up in that very ideological, very
He's kind of witnessing the, as you've
institutionalization
day-to-day governance. Exactly. But he's
becomes a teenager, he participates in
About a year after the revolution,
Iran and it started an 8-year bloody war
men in Iran who were supporters of the
some as young as 13 and 14 to go to the
And Mojtaba was one of them. He
and went to the front lines of the war.
current generals and [music] senior
in that battalion. So he bonds with
credentials as someone [music] who was
his home and go fight. And that's where
current generals
Right, he has real street cred. He
someone as powerful as his dad doesn't
Right, so after the war he moves to Qom,
the centers of the Shia faith, to study
and a scholar. And he gets married to
sort of climbs the ranks of religious
advanced Islamic jurisprudence, which is
can only teach if you yourself are an
So he's holding these classes in Qom in
very popular. Lots of young clerics are
a certain level of charisma perhaps.
in the eyes of his students maybe he was
really seen him in public to really be
teachings because apparently they were
to [clears throat] Tehran and enters his
starts building alliances with very
and basically becomes in in charge of
administrative things of his father's
Revolutionary Guard's intelligence
Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf as a commander of
speaker of the parliament and the three
hold meetings once a week and there they
the policies and sort of the plans that
wanted to see elected in in office to
on dissidents and other security matters
So, he's quite clearly becoming an
figure in his own right. I'm curious
examples
that help us understand how he viewed
One of the examples that we know of and
the 2009
president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
Ahmadinejad has declared victory, he's
especially are angered by what they
defeated the reform candidate
results were contested.
And it started a movement called the
like this hasn't been seen in more than
out and saying the elections were
for restraint, saying protesters will be
chaos. And from the interviews that I've
remember that say that Mojtaba Khamenei
rigging of the elections in Mr.
fought back by firing tear gas and water
protesters from the backs of speeding
orchestrating the crackdowns,
militia of the Revolutionary Guards.
remain in detention, and at least 30 are
the streets and really crush the
hardliners in the regime over the past
Khamenei and said, "This guy is with us.
The story of Mojtaba's rise very much
Guards rise and control of of Iran
economically. Their stories are
But, also, as much as he operated in the
in his father's world, he was not really
you're thinking like one day you're
and ruling over at least your own
that criticizes the regime, but sort of
He never made any public outreach. He he
prayer or deliver a public speech or
event. He was sort of just someone
backgrounds and backrooms of power. So,
suddenly he is now their religious
know him.
you mentioned this earlier, by the fact
leader, as Ayatollah, he has given the
No speech, no video, nothing kind of
……（接近结尾）……
have no evidence of that, right? Other
than what people are saying, all the
evidence points otherwise.
In the opposite, right. Well, in that
case, Farnaz,
is there a case to be made that the
United States and Israel have given Iran
exactly
the leader of the regime that they said
at the outset of this war that they were
seeking to eliminate, overthrow, and
avoid? And that would be a pretty ironic
outcome here.
Many people in Iran point to that. They
say that the United States and Israel
said that they were going to come and
liberate us from the rule of this
regime, but so far in third week of war,
not only we're seeing vast destruction
and ruin of our country from residential
homes to police precincts to critical
infrastructure, airports, factories,
cultural gems and heritage, now we have
the Ayatollah's son as our leader. So,
it's very disappointing to most Iranians
if this is in indeed the final outcome
of the war.
You had talked about the 80% of Iranians
who wanted there to be a change. That
was the math you described in our last
episode, and it sounds like you're
saying that the elevation of Mojtaba
Khamenei as the new supreme leader
must be a real shock to the system
for those who let themselves believe at
the outset of this war that maybe there
would be the kind of change that would
open Iran
up to something else.
Um I think, Michael, that moment of hope
that we discussed the last time we spoke
was real but brief.
In the third week of the war, as Iran
has stated [music]
Mojtaba Khamenei as its supreme leader
and there's no signs [music] that it's
going to change its policies or make any
major concessions, [music] Iranians are
under relentless bombing and air strikes
campaign by Israel and the United
States, [music] and they're afraid.
They're afraid of the war, they're
afraid of this war spreading,
and [music]
pretty much every night I get text
messages from people who live in Iran
saying
much louder than before. They were
closer than before. So it [music] feels
like fear and anxiety has replaced hope.
Wfornaz,
Thank you very much for having me,
Michael.
We'll be right back.
And I've been a big critic of all of the
protecting of countries because I know
that we'll protect them.
if ever needed, if we ever needed help,
they won't be there for us. I'm just On
Monday, President Trump discouraged US
allies who have so far rejected his call
to use their military to escort cargo
ships [music] in and out of the Strait
of Hormuz, which Iran has largely shut
down during the war. [music]
In pointed remarks, Trump claimed that
the refusal amounted to ingratitude from
countries like Germany and Japan [music]
after the US military protected them for
decades. You mean for 40 years we're
protecting you and you don't want to get
involved in something that is very
minor. Very few shots going to be taken
cuz they don't have many shots left.
But they said we'd rather not uh
get involved. Trump's inability to end
the standoff in the Strait has roiled
the global economy,
raising oil [music] prices sharply and
becoming a major frustration for the
president.
And
has blocked many of the major decisions
about vaccines over the past year.
Those decisions include cutting down the
number of diseases [music] covered by
routine immunizations, including
hepatitis B for newborns, and
restricting [music]
access to COVID vaccines.
The judge said that those decisions
bypassed normal procedures
expertise.
The White House said it would appeal the
judge's ruling.
Astha Chaturvedi, Mouge Zaidy, and
Stella Tan.
It was edited by Mark George, contains
music [music]
by Mary Lozano, Chelsea Daniel, Will
Reed, Rowan Nemixto, and Dan Powell.
Our theme music [music] is by Wonderly.
This episode was engineered by Chris
Wood.
I'm Michael Barbaro.
See you tomorrow.