TITLE: How Autonomous Labs Will Transform Scientific Research: Ginkgo Bioworks’ Jason Kelly
CHANNEL: Sequoia Capital
DURATION_S: 3508  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-24T12:01:12+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g45Alfg7diw
SHA256: ceaccebc0d739f946d260c738cf961352203e0955c755670bf90013050040255

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [5%] less than 5% is on the reagents. Mhm.
  [2008] Ginkgo Bioworks in 2008 with the goal of
  [2014] actually raise any capital until 2014.
  [40%] we beat it by 40%. And so that was a I
  [99%] do the variability. So 99% of the work
  [95%] science today, 95% of science, the stuff
  [30000] 30,000 experiments to run and after it
  [90%] now they're running where 90% of the
  [100%] &gt;&gt; 100% And and again if you're like trying
  [20%] talking going from like sub-20%
  [70%] utilization at the bench to like 70%. So
  [85%] 85% of the market for biotechnology is
  [10%] therapeutics, and then there's like 10%
  [1960] to the 1960s

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
All of the previous revolutions in tech,
internet, right? Like social media, like
whatever have been totally meaningless
to biotechnology and biopharma. Like,
yeah, it's nice. We communicate slightly
better, whatever. It's just some like
back office IT crap, right? Like
not this. Like like this this is is
actually going to change the
fundamentals of how we do science and
and our big science industries like
biopharma are going to get disrupted. I
I really believe that and that's not
been true for [music] the last 30 years
of tech.
founder and CEO of Ginkgo Bioworks with
us today. Thank you for joining us.
Ginkgo Bioworks in 2008 with the goal of
making biology programmable. And
programmable has taken on completely
different meaning in the era of AI. So
I'm very excited for the conversation
today. Maybe tell us about the journey
so far.
I mean uh I'll I'll do the Ginkgo
journey journey in short, right? Yeah,
we started in 2008 but we didn't
actually raise any capital until 2014.
So we bootstrapped for 4 or 5 years.
Which like if you're not a bio person,
this doesn't make sense but in biotech
VC, they really don't like like young
people for example. So we had started
the company like straight out of grad
school. It was 2008. We weren't trying
to make a drug. We were like totally
uninvestable.
company for those first 6 years? Oh
yeah. Okay.
did government grants and service
business. It was like pretty brutal
start. And then summer 14, Sam Altman,
now Mr. Famous,
writes this blog post cuz he just took
over YC and he's like, "Hey, I think the
Silicon Valley model can work for like
deep tech." You know, nuclear fission,
biotech, material science. And so I
wrote him an email. I was like, "Oh man,
like thank you for I mean we're we're
like 5 years old. I got 15 people in a
lab in Boston. We don't make any sense
for YC but this is like a oasis in the
desert, you know? Like nobody will
invest in weird companies like this."
And he's like, "No, you got to meet me."
So I flew out to San Francisco, met him.
He's like, "You should do YC." I was
like, "I should do YC."
was sort of when you know, if you really
want to mark Ginkgo from like having
capital, it was sort of in 2014. And how
has the product changed since 2014? Oh,
well, so the mission hasn't changed but
the product has gone all over the place,
different different roads. So we've
always wanted to make biology easier to
engineer. That was the idea. And so if
you're you know, this is a very much
programmable. Has it have the words
always been make it easier to engineer?
Cuz I feel like that's a slight
was always like this the the computer
science wrapper on make biology easier
to engineer. But yeah, that was always
our mission. Okay, got it. But the
analogy is solid, right? So you know,
DNA is code, right? It's ATCs and Gs,
not zeros and ones. It's really our only
other like coded product other than
computers is really biotechnology. And
so the core idea of Ginkgo was, well, if
you could design DNA code, you can
program cells to do things. And cells
are you know, they're programmable like
computers, right? But unlike computers,
which just move information around,
cells move atom around. So if you can
build whatever you want, that's we think
ultimately going to be a huge market, a
huge opportunity. But the challenge is
our ability to program cells today is
really bad. And so how could you fix
that? That was the core idea behind
Ginkgo. And how has the product itself
changed over time?
first was we're going to try to build
what we called foundries, which was sort
of a centralized laboratory that would
kind of automate the lab work associated
with doing biotech. And and the reason
again, if you're a computer scientist,
the way to think about this is if you
want to compile and debug DNA code,
that's a physical process. Yep. Right?
So you're like ATCGGG, like we have to
do phosphoramidite chemistry. You got to
build the piece of DNA you want and then
put it into a cell, grow the cell and
test the cell and that's your kind of
compile debug cycle. Does that make
sense? And so one half of what we worked
on technologically was, how do we make
that cheaper?
Right? Cuz if you want to get better and
doing this, you got to do more of it
faster and for less expense. And then
the second thing we worked on was, how
do you get better at your programming?
In other words, like that design you
choose to test in the lab, how do you
improve the odds that it does what you
want? So sort of like get better at
design the biology and make it cheaper
to try things. We're like basically for
the last 15 years, the twin activities.
And in an era of the AI, I see you see
opportunities on both sides for that
today and that's we've shifted a little
bit over the years in terms of how we do
it. Um but though does that make sense
that you kind of have And roughly
speaking, the design piece sounds like
it's a bit more software. The testing
piece sounds like it's a bit more
hardware
controlled by software. Very much. Yeah,
that's exactly right. And today the
folks leading on the design side, you
might see
companies like Chai Bio for example like
who has like these protein models Bolts.
Um the folks at Arc Institute are really
just came out today with a paper we'll
call it about Evo 2, which is like a a
genomic model. There's a whole community
of people now trying to solve the
problem of designing biology with AI.
The big change at Ginkgo over the last 2
years is I've kind of stopped working on
that problem. Mhm. I'm like, we had our
own approach to solving it. It's hard,
right? Like designing cells is tricky.
We're going to try to solve this half of
the out of the problem, which is how do
you make it cheaper and faster to try
things in the lab and how can you We can
talk a little bit more. We did a project
with OpenAI. How could you have AI
models help you do that? Is anybody else
focused on the back end, so to speak? I
kind of think about design as the front
end of the process
when I say anybody else, obviously
people do this. Is anybody else with a
similar approach focused on that part of
the market? Um you you're there's some
new companies, right? So there's
companies like Madra out here as one
that's doing it with like robotic arms
trying to accelerate it. You have like
the life science tools industry but I
would say it does not have
a Silicon Valley attitude about things
in the sense that they're not really
trying to change the fundamentals of how
you do it. They're sort of like just
providing the next tool to people doing
it the way they've always done it.
And so we've always been this kind of
unique force trying to say, "Hey, is
there a new platform?" Right? Is there
something like the jump to planar
semiconductor manufacturing in
electronics at the beginning of Intel?
You know, like is there some some way we
should just do all this stuff
differently that could make it way
better in the future? And that's always
been the Ginkgo like what I think is
unique about what we've been doing in
the last 10 years. What catalyzed the
focus on this part of the business? On
the on this half of the house?
Yeah, I think [clears throat] this is an
engineering problem and I don't think
this is a science problem. Okay.
kind of took my licks for that. And I
think the the good thing about an
engineering problem is you can
ultimately like render it to dust,
right? A science problem, I think is
great if you hit it but it's much more
unpredictable. And so in this era of
Ginkgo, I've got like the resources
marshaled at this point to go after this
and kind of see it through. And so
that's why you see me pointing in that
direction.
the Arc Institute and others of that
ilk, what inning are we in, so to speak?
Like is the ecosystem around the science
problem Good question.
results soon other than papers? Uh it's
a good question. I I think the the hard
part about designing biology So biology
……（中部抽样）……
is amazing, by the way, right? Like just
physical substrate, it's insane.
half of your drugs today are produced by
sense? And so I think they have a really
Mr. Altman,
I can talk more about this but the short
science today, 95% of science, the stuff
You know, right? Like
you have to go out usually and like poke
robotic lab? That was the question. And
cell right now, remember like
and then add the DNA to that. And
of Stanford from my Jewett's lab in
384 well plates. Okay? So each well in a
state of the art and after six rounds,
the art? Uh so this is this is my point.
up with an idea and then they're trying
Oh, this is how
the house. It just requires you to be
it break through wasn't that it was so
the United States. Well, and it's easy
Yeah. What's wrong with that vision of
scientist today.
scientist will push back on is like
uh
would have a lab, you'd have a lab, I'd
based on what I see at the end, I write
way. I'm getting like the distilled
that has every piece of equipment that
scientists on top of this thing. Yeah.
experiments, like what experiment they
for example, say your experiment went
conclusion about what the 100 of them
across a lot of projects for the AIs is
what's up with the indirect rates at the
Yep. Okay? Uh they have equipment, but
equipment.
Everything is on overhead is basically
science. Yeah.
like less than 5%. So the other
how we do it today. Yeah. So I think you
head of R&amp;D needs to care about this.
been totally meaningless to
and our big science industries like
of information. Computation is about the
of what it is you're doing. Completely
either products or for the government,
tech guys finally did something cool.
autonomous labs and then I'll explain
Standing I I I did a PhD at MIT in
would do like manual labor, right? Like
well everyone in in Silicon Valley is
is like high mix low volume work.
like level of automation. Yep. And then
you know, maybe you like
transportation system looked like for
anymore. We make up a new word. We call
And AI we hit a wall on flexibility of
sense? Sure. And so that's what we're so
do the variability. So 99% of the work
you know, you kind of had your sensor
then there are gazillion corner cases
automation to autonomy it's going to be
Lab I can make it it's my lab every day
Okay. So so in my world it's the
pieces of third party like you can't
we doing with our hands when we do
and like but the thing is if the liquid
work as the human to like manage that.
Yeah, yeah yeah agree. Yeah, it's
the hardware
really hard and and so we have this
remember the Google engineers who had
robots we're going to 100 in our big lab
just the handling the scheduling with
Right? So there's just these like things
It's just a matter of having like all
everybody's done. They've made like
one will program chat. And I and so we
little wells with liquids in them and it
de-seal the plate before you send it to
Okay. And and I was just like this is
sends a plate sealed we will update the
know, right? Like so these are the
else on the planet right now. So it's
different machines.
do that than like walk them bipedally
disappears. Okay. And then the other
discipline. Like biology is a
centers have become these enormous
And they're they're set up for basically
that kind of like cycling is is kind of
scientists are ordering all their
you have because of physical people. You
all in around a track system, so it's
science thing that Trump's doing and
earlier like the spending is not on the
cart. It's basically like a box that has
of them all together in our lab in
for per box.
You know, Pacific Northwest National
to me seems like inference. Like it's a
I don't know yet. I I think I think
Right? Like you want to do a slight Oh,
twin. No. Like, you know, right? Like
that Waymo had to see driving around are
The bigger one is sort of
results of every experiment. Like it's
right? Like everything else is kind of
that nut, like if you can if models plus
generating in the lab needs to feed back
I do think is is again, in my view, some
like if we really want them to be smart,
and so it's run by the Department of
was like a Department of Energy project.
actually put out a list of like these
what we want to do is bring AI models
do it is they want to take the existing
that was And so when we we did that deal
for us.
Like I think it's Well, in in in the
chaired like 7 years ago. So it was
then this was on on bioengineering,
to spend on science basically. And
Like they're actually like if you look
then they try to sell it to Merck or
Last quarter, 40% plus. Wow. Okay? Yeah.
And remember, it's like a hands in the
this change both in how we do
Right? Like the the founding point of
if you get technologically surprised.
you guys about.
like, it's [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] Oh, what is this?
think that's also a thing that we've
should give it a try. Pharma has been
like, should everyone just get back be
something in Louisiana. But, like, you
hopes is
house that are, you know, fundamentally
through we're still in biotech winter.
tell. Yeah. Um feels Google with
through. Well, and I think um
phase one is sort of becoming
specific categories, one at a time.
bunch of breakthroughs. Yeah. And so, I
better than what human chip designers
83. Yeah, 37. Great. Yes. Like, move 37.
It'll intuit something that a person
these A lot of the the physical world
like
insane break You know, we got a
will the venture capital industry shrink
thing would happen, but actually the
the same thing happens, which is the
you think somebody's going to train like
available to the reasoning model to do
think those will end up being powerful
That that's already true. I don't need
or not? Okay, yeah. So, let's nerd out
All I want to do in life is like make
that stuff, right? They haven't brought
like they program computers. Mhm. Right?
is that the only working app ecosystem
industrial. Like, you when you have cold
compilers.
We'd all be like, well, there's so you
and cheaper to just design biology, make
it has to do with regulatory, basically.
It takes us like 2 and 1/2 years. Like,
that does remain like a like a problem,
would be a big accelerant not just for
to pick our app of drugs, it has gotten
like and and which is like Baumol's cost
……（接近结尾）……
Like well, you know, like like Bryan's
got a good life, you know, like would
you be like oh, you're taking some
random thing and trying it out? Like
isn't that scary? And he's like, well,
I'm monitoring all the time.
Right? So like every week he's like
taking all these tests and everything
else. He's like the most measured
person. $2 million a year of of
diagnostic stuff, right? Like
that is the other area. So like oh, we
all love our Oura rings and everything.
This is pathetic. Okay, right? Like it's
great. Your heart rate. It's like
telling you nothing. All right? Like
like the real Now, I love Oura by the
way. I've had this thing for 10 years.
But like the real meat of what's going
on inside your body is molecular. Yeah.
So what we really should be doing is
like taking a blood sample every week
and giving you like a whole read out of
a ton of stuff
like longitudinally over time so that
you can try different interventions for
you
and see you how it affects you
molecularly cuz that's what actually
matters. Like molecularly like aging is
molecular, right? It's not your [&nbsp;__&nbsp;]
whatever. The the And so so like that
whole world
and stuff like functions getting going
and doing Quest tests. Like I mean my
god, I did it over Christmas, but it's
like 10 vials. It's like the worst
experience in the entire world, right?
Like like that
Yeah, but it but it's but it's so early,
right? That's my point. Like so I think
that line is another place that could be
a big If you're asking about near end
apps for biotech, that one is the other
one, right? And so I think I think you
could see that. I think you could see
other things like the clips. Those are
ones I'm excited about. And then I'm
always hopeful
something like that. Yes, you know,
right? Like like there'll just be some
other weird thing.
And and we did just launch a cloud lab
service Igen go where you can
like we have experiments as cheap as $39
that you can just run and we don't send
you anything. Like we won't send you a
sample, but we will send you back data.
So it's like you do the experiment, we
run the experiment for you, you got the
data back, right? And so my my last
point on this one
is like
I think if you like science is thought
of as this very like precious genius
thing, but really what it is is like
formalized human curiosity. It's like a
process by which humans of which all of
us are curious about things
like do curiosity right. Like really try
to answer our curiosity. Does that make
sense? And I and I think everybody's
curious. And so I believe that if you
drop the cost of like like like a lot of
what blocks people from science is
actually not like the esotericness of
it. It's in my view the lab.
It is that that is brutal, right? Like
you don't have access A, it is a total
gate-kept. Like you cannot get access to
one. It like almost legally you can't
get access to one, right? Like And so
there's just this whole thing. And and
I'm like, well, what if that went away?
What if people everyday people could
could order an experiment? What if the
model would help them design the
experiment to ask a question that they
have about the world? Would they
suddenly ask questions and do these
experiments? Would they be Would
everybody Would millions of people want
to be scientists? And I know that sounds
like well, that's nuts, ba ba ba. But
like if you rewind the clock, God bless
Silicon Valley in the computer industry
to the 1960s
when it was IBM and it was mainframes
and you told people
that kids
would program computers, they would say
you're [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] insane.
And so I believe if you do manage to
drop the cost of all this stuff, you may
have kids and everybody else wanting to
just ask original scientific questions
and being able to do it. And that would
be a cool market, right? Like And so
anyway, that that
All this stuff I feel is on the other
side of of getting the say I for science
stuff working, but I'm excited about it.
Extremely cool vision for the future.
Great notes end on. Thank you. Very
inspiring. Thanks for having me on.