TITLE: Anthropic, the Pentagon, and the Future of Autonomous Weapons | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 3106  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-29T18:21:53+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_jYFDx6B9iU
SHA256: 29c19220f776b9a8cd70b5fd11d30f4a6d587a42e49f73a67da0e90691918c8a

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2022] this space prior to November 2022.
  [6000] US military has flown over 6,000 sorties
  [2011] around say 2011, I led an effort inside
  [2023] very 2023

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
news.
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. And I'm Tracy Alloway. So
Tracy, we're recording this March 24th
and of course almost all of our episodes
lately have been about the war in Iran.
little weird is that just prior to the
war, literally days or maybe hours, the
biggest story in the world was actually
about defense and you know, the DoD.
That's right. So you are referring to
Anthropic.
put it mildly, with the Department of
War?
story going right up on the eve of the
war in Iran. And of course, obviously
there was this contract and Anthropic's
technology was used by the Defense
Department. So it was not a disagreement
about the use of AI per se in war, but
the question of the degree of to which
AI could be used for autonomous weapon
systems on their own without a human in
the loop. And surveillance, that was
also part of
element. But you're right. So we've
heard this expression autonomous weapons
pop up more and more, especially in
recent days. And I have a lot of
questions over what exactly that means
because my impression is the US military
certainly has been using AI for some
time. And so we're really talking about
degrees here of autonomy, right? And so
Yes.
weapon, I think your mind could go fully
Terminator and you know, there's like a
murder robot out there that's making its
own decisions on which people or places
to target. And then you got levels below
that, right? Where AI is kind of helping
humans to come up with strategic
decisions. Right. So if there was a
missile coming and you have a missile
defense system,
I don't think you want a human in the
loop is like, "Okay, here are the
coordinates XYZ that we think it's going
to hit. At this point in time we think
the missile will be here. Are you cool
with firing it?" I think everyone's
probably okay with that level of
autonomy. But I have a feeling that to
your point exactly, a lot of this
discussion and maybe it's core to what
Anthropic and the Department of Defense
were disagreeing on, I have a feeling a
lot of this is going to
come down to definitions. My guess is
that there is not one shared agreement
of this is an autonomous weapon system
and this one is not. Absolutely. And of
course, there are also questions over
exactly how places like the Department
of Defense, not only how they define it,
but once they have those definitions,
whether or not certain companies trust
them Yeah, totally. to stick to those
policies because the US will say, "Well,
our policy is not to surveil Right.
moment. So if you're Anthropic, you
don't need to worry about that." Clearly
Anthropic feels otherwise or say they
do. So there are all these really
interesting thematic questions that pop
up from all of this. Totally. And then
there's the question of, "Okay, here's a
technology and the government says we
believe that we can use this to make the
country safer. What, you're not going to
let us do it?" Like private corporation,
there's some very interesting questions
about the role of corporate power
vis-a-vis the government and so forth.
Anyway,
this is uh something that has become
even more timely. There were reports
even in the early days of the Iran war
about these AI systems having been used
perhaps in target selection, but we
don't really know. None of the reporting
is like that clear. I don't think that
they're going out and advertising, "This
is the strike location."
so forth. But this is obviously a huge
debate and war aside, it's only going to
grow and just as it AI is going to grow,
it seems in so many different areas.
Anyway, I'm really excited to say we
really do have the perfect guest,
someone who's been writing and thinking
about this stuff for a long time. When
we talk to an AI expert, I mark the
dividing line as like, "Were you talking
about AI prior to when ChatGPT was
released?" As like I take a little bit
more seriously the people who are in
this space prior to November 2022.
Anyway, I'm very excited to say we're
going to be speaking with Paul Scharre.
He's the executive vice president at the
Center for a New American Security and
he's the author of two books related to
this. One is most recent, Four
Battlegrounds: Power in the Age of
Artificial Intelligence. And then prior
to that, he is the author of Army of
None: Autonomous Weapons and the Future
of War. He was previously in the office
of the Secretary of Defense, also
previous Army Ranger. So truly the
perfect guest. So Paul, thank you so
much for uh coming on Odd Lots.
Oh, thank you for having me. Very
excited to be here. Why don't we start?
I mentioned I had a feeling that maybe
the definition of an autonomous weapon
is a contested one. But if I say to you,
"What's an autonomous weapon?" What's an
autonomous weapon?
So I think you're right from the
beginning that there is not a unified
definition that everyone agrees on. The
Defense Department has their definition
that's written in their policy. I think
conceptually, I think the distinction
really is a weapon that is choosing its
own target on the battlefield.
Now today people are choosing those
targets.
But it is kind of a spectrum because we
do have examples of weapons that have
some measure of autonomy. A good analogy
might be self-driving cars where
conceptually, like okay, a self-driving
car would be where the AI is driving the
car. But then you get into an actual car
today and a lot of them have intelligent
cruise control, automatic braking,
automated self-parking. They have all
these like automated features that are
kind of creeping you in this direction
where the AI is taking over more and
more control for what the vehicle can
do. And it's actually pretty similar
thing in the military space as well. So
Joe mentioned that had we been having
this conversation even a month ago now,
it probably would have had fewer
concrete examples of AI-enabled
weaponry, let's say, or strategy. When
the Pentagon talks about its advanced AI
tools that it's deploying for the Iran
conflict, what are some examples that
you're seeing right now that are
different to say, maybe just a year ago
when we had another Iran conflict?
Right. So there's a couple ways in which
the Pentagon is using AI right now. One
is narrow AI systems that have been
around for over a decade now that do
image classification, for example. So
this was the military's original Project
Maven almost a decade ago where they
took machine learning image classifiers
to sift through drone video feeds and
satellite images to identify objects.
Okay, here's a building, here's a
person, here's a vehicle. That's pretty
mature technology. Now, what's come out
in just the last couple weeks that's
really quite interesting is that in the
midst of this huge messy public breakup
between Anthropic and the Pentagon, we
found out that in fact Anthropic's AI
tools are being used by the US military
to help plan the war against Iran.
That's obviously a different kind of AI
tool, AI large language models, AI being
used to write code, AI agents. And
that's being used in a different way.
It's really helping intel analysts sift
through just the massive amount of data
that the US military has. And so if you
can imagine the problem that the
military is facing right now, when
they're looking at targets in Iran, the
US military has flown over 6,000 sorties
against Iran. The Iranian military
architecture is degraded in a lot of
ways. The US military has like bombed a
lot of targets. There are mobile
targets, senior Iranian commanders,
mobile missile launchers and air defense
systems and drone launchers. The US
military has got to bring all that
information together and find out where
are these targets right now and where is
there an aircraft that has the right
……（中部抽样）……
bombs on it to take these targets out.
Now, I don't think that using
different interface and so forth. But is
called the Maven Smart System, which is
these different forms of data. You might
how does a human understand all that
basically task a large language model to
of intelligence that can help identify
could say, "Okay, here's this list of
are available aircraft and what are
understand the battle space and plan
People are asking the AI some really
current setup, how meaningful is the
certain patterns or identify potential
accept what it shows you on the screen.
was out the result of quote outdated
layer currently in terms of Okay, here
then the ultimate call for a strike on
Because you could end up in a place
kind of rubber-stamping some kind of
very real risk with how AI is used. Now,
I think humans are pretty involved right
which is when you're talking about
fixed object and so that's likely
time part of an Iranian military
appear based on what's been reported in
investigation about exactly where that
able to help you with those things, but
the curve and talk about this stuff,
around say 2011, I led an effort inside
fact. And that was really part of at the
woken up to what I would call this
And the military was starting to think
reliant on a human remotely controlling
implications of that? And that was
directive that's still in place on the
technology evolve in really amazing
side similar to what we're seeing with
Not at that time. Now, a few years
open letter protesting that and Google
terms of a disconnect between how some
challenge of AI is really different than
defense labs and doesn't have a lot of
AI should be used, you know, in the
can't the US government, with all its
skills. The AI scientists and engineers
spends a lot of money, hundreds of
training AI models. And partly because
particular instance, but in the past,
for them as a customer. I mean, the
we've seen the defense sector has a
couldn't build a good health care
employment insurance website? The trap
Martin inventing a technology and then
novel when you're getting these defense
talk more about that disagreement though
that you were working on when you were
said that there's no intention by the
ChatGPT knows that if you use these to
What's at dispute here is a more
strategy was that going forward, they
conflicted with how a lot of these tech
place. You can't use AI either to launch
the rules rather than necessarily like a
doesn't want to do it, we'll do it
reputational concern is able to do this
I think it would be ideal for the
for the government to have access to a
this you want to listen. Like that seems
dialogue between the AI community and
going back to the idea of who actually
that prevents it from doing that. If
So yeah, so this is where it gets a
could put safeguards in place to make
that. That's not consistent with the
output of a model where the model might
run into that actually myself in my own
response and then it gets deleted
it for cyber attacks is that the company
criminals or a hacking group that try to
you're thinking about military use where
company may not have the same ways to
the government about what the military
OpenAI, they could set the pace of
China etc., the tempo of release has
where that leaves AI safety.
have safeguards on its technology or say
was doing some experiments about like
industrialization happened and it led to
it just as soon as the chain of thought
we've been talking about quote large
sort of term. And when and I think this
be talking about generative AI. Where do
wouldn't be a controversy. There was so
there would be no dispute. You wouldn't
now?
They're certainly not interested in
bringing in lots of different forms of
see AI being used in ways that might
take on more like sophisticated
see this look is just we see a network
like nominally looking at these targets,
or robotic system that has some kind of
partly machine learning but also just a
low-cost drones that we're seeing Iran
then there's a system is like this looks
use. So, there have been some narrow
would call a cooperative target that
if they turn off, it's different then
cruise missile that the military's using
a period of time, but these loitering
guess I mean, we have electrical
previous examples of bots interacting
up the more we move towards fully
to the interactions of different
share the details of what their
offline if the price moves too quickly.
speed and you have autonomous offensive
interactions that might escalate a
it might be less of a concern, although
that you'd rather not go after. So, I
for example, are going to be killed,
to play a role in some of these
would not and would be the opposite.
or hospitals or critical civilian
would be a really beneficial use of AI,
risk of all of this is you could end up
like a really tricky thing to think
burden. And if someone if you could say,
On the other hand, if we fought a war
concern when we think about how to use
video game, just an exercise, but it
especially the public presentation.
armed conflict and war. Is there any
that and where you put protections on
Yeah. And right, we're seeing this in
military because they're worried about
certain weapons off the table, chemical
hard to do. And so, I think that dynamic
I think this is the last question for
the subways sometimes that seem to be
I think there is a Eric Adams did a
trees, but they are going to merge and
advanced autonomous robots. We know
us about how far that could go.
somebody else has been towards greater
find the enemy strike the enemy without
realistic. For a couple of reasons. One
remotely from the United States in a
That's one of the ways you can go after
people relatively close for that reason.
little dark which I think realistically
we may not get to the place where one
guess it's a thought experiment but if
button in response to the US and thereby
there's people involved right? So this
the Soviet Union and then another
we could hear what he said because we
Soviets rather just deployed a new
was skeptical of it. Turns out it was in
went and then called the early warning
question here is like if that was an AI
purpose AI systems like large language
it still doesn't know the stakes of a
decisions even as the AI becomes more
controversial to say have an
even there
……（接近结尾）……
military demand right? To Paul's point
it's a commercial product. Its
commercial uses are arguably a lot more
profitable than its military ones and so
seeing that now interact with the
Pentagon and the Department of War
really interesting. It's been flipped
right? Yeah, the closest example
actually that comes to mind there is one
example that's in fairly recent history
and that's Starlink. Oh yeah of course
yeah. And of course that was developed
for commercial internet purposes but it
played a role in Ukraine and so forth.
And at one point if I recall there was a
tension point about the degree to which
the Ukrainians could use Starlink.
And so I do think that is sort of an
interesting parallel here. The other
thing and we didn't get to this and I
this is going to be a little cynical but
I think it's right which is that
there is another element I believe to
the Anthropic situation which is like
Anthropic is the last big lib tech
company or perceived as such right? And
we know that there's been this fairly
sort of rightward turn in Silicon Valley
over the years and I don't think like
Anthropic is like totally part of that.
I think they're still sort of lib coded.
I also think it's incidentally why a
bunch of people who probably like work
in media are like end up using Claude
even though they're all kind of the
same. Like I do think there's something
there and that they have this thing they
say we're not going to ever have ads and
we know that like Andreessen Horowitz
Mark Andreessen has talked about ads are
good ads democratize the internet ads
enable the internet to be spread to
everyone. There's some other politics at
play because again like from my
understanding and it would take a lawyer
it's like I don't think that the
agreement that OpenAI signed was that
different at least than what the
agreement that Anthropic had there's
probably a little bit of difference. I
just think there's some other politics
at play here.
talking about currently autonomous
weapons right now fully autonomous. But
it can't be long and I think this is
going to be a real tension sooner rather
than later. Can I say one thing and I'm
going to be slightly facetious but also
not. Can you be slightly facetious? I'm
going to be facetious which is I have a
solution to modern warfare.
Don't do it.
If we're just going to have bots
fighting bots and it's going to cost a
lot of money and result in people's
deaths, every country should have to
build its biggest, best, most
technologically advanced robot and just
have them fight it out gladiatorially.
And my twist is, to Paul's point about
war always having to be painful in some
way,
everyone in that particular society has
to be engaged and dedicate some amount
of time or money to building that
particular robot. And you just have to
iterate on the robot forever until you
feel comfortable to have them fight. And
that way everyone shares the pain, but
without the loss of human life. Am I
high? I don't think so. Well, I think
you should write a book. No, I don't
right. Shall we leave it there? Let's
leave it there. This has been another
episode of the Odd Lots podcast. I'm
Tracy Alloway. You can follow me at
Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe Weisenthal.
You can follow me at The Stalwart.
Follow our guest, Paul Scharre. He's at
Paul_Scharre.
Follow our producers, Carmen Rodriguez
at Carmen Arman, Dashiel [music] Bennett
at Dashbot, and Caleb Brooks at Caleb
Brooks. And for more Odd Lots content,
go to Bloomberg.com/oddlots
for the daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. And you can chat about all of
these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/oddlots.
And if you enjoy Odd Lots, if you like
it when we [music] talk about the future
of autonomous weapons, then please leave
us a positive review on your favorite
podcast platform. [music]
And remember, if you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely ad-free. [music]
All you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcasts and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.