2025-09-24_AI裁员潮袭向美印_ 中印青年还该不该赴美_ 对话拉詹_68d2741b522b40626ce5e4b2_原文
2026年07月02日 14:11
发言人   00:02
In some societies, you have to burn money to show how which you are, right? Six percent is not enough. But even in china, there are few years of growing old before china grows rich.
发言人   00:13
The fears are even more pronounced in india. Tata consulting services announced the twelve thousand job got cutting in the middle and upper medical management levels. Basically, they're trying to prune the workforce, get in people Better, able to use AI related software tools to write software.
发言人   00:35
Do you think india student or chinese students should still aspire to study in the U. S. Given the current situation in the united states, I am hopeful Better sense prevails in the united states.
发言人   00:49
Why so many of the innovations still happen in the us? Because IT has historical attracted very good people from across the world. Lots have become CEO.
发言人   01:00
Certainly I can save within the university. The environment is still very hospitable. We recently have a little spat with the indian entrepreneur.
发言人   01:12
The spat was about some CEO sing. The norm should be, everybody works for a really long time. In some places that's useful.
发言人   01:21
Some places is the surfer way to be burned out and not be creative at all. And maybe we need creative people, rather than people who work to show the that there at the office. 听众朋友们大家好，欢迎收听先生，我是利维。最近印度可以说是屋漏偏逢连夜雨，刚过去的这个周末，美国对H1B工签加收10万美元的消息，让印度到美国的机票价格一度暴涨。我们担心中国学生赴美留学的价值，而数据显示印度人去年获得了超七成的H1B中国申请人占到12%。
发言人   01:59
上个月印度还被美国加征了全球最高的关税，印度最大的埃踢大厂则因为AI冲击宣布裁员1.2万人。这样的背景下，印度总理莫迪在这个月初来天津出席了上合峰会，七年来首次访华。七月底，印度还重启了对我们的旅游签证，放宽了商务签证的审批，可以预见，不论是旅游出差还是复印投资，接下来都会比过去几年更容易，那么今天的印度到底什么样？
发言人   02:30
印度央行的前行长拉詹可能是最适合帮我们理解今天印度的人。他在2005年的IMFF年会上就预警了美国次贷危机。而今天他与微软CEO纳德拉，谷歌CEOP叉E一道，很可能是除了莫迪之外，全球范围内最知名的印度人回国担任央行行长经历又让他对印度的情况多了一线的理解。今年4月，他还出任了惠及全球现任以及前任央行行长的30人集团的主席。不久前，他的新著打破常规印度特色的繁荣之路在我们国内出版。
发言人   03:06
结合着这本新书，我和拉詹行长做了这场对话，对话里讲到的很多小故事，不仅让我对今天的印度有新认识，也让我意外发现我们和印度之间也有不少相似之处。大家如果也有类似发现，也欢迎在评论区里跟我们聊聊。我们也聊了美国的印度裔CEO现象，海外学子赴美求学的前景，还重点聊了聊当下最受关注的AI它正在给印度和美国带来什么样的冲击，这对于我们如何看待，如何应对AI又有怎样的启示呢？下面马上进入我们的对话。
发言人   03:43
Welcome to our podcast, doctor region. Explain me. As I mentioned at the start of our conversation, the book is very good on explaining many of the interesting situation in india. For example, the while at result, bank of india的central bank，you like to host parties for stuff. S so I was amazed to find indians like to go work in the government, you know, nowadays there is also many chinese want to go work in the governments that a similar situation in earlier years in japan, but now japanese civil servants start to access to business sector to the extent that the japanese government need to reactivate to include attract of civil servants.
发言人   04:26
So in india, is there any change in terms of government jobs? Attractive, miss, and its supply? Well, if IT is I mentioned, which we emphasize in the book, that there is the issue of joblessness in india, especially in an environment where the number of good jobs are relatively small compared to be Young people entering the workforce.
发言人   04:54
Given a historic aversion to working with the hands, more senior people don't work with their hands. Therefore, there has been a lot more focus on White color government jobs and any immense increase in applications for those kinds of jobs. Are they viewed more favorably relative to a more precarious private sector job where you don't have lots of benefits, you have some uncertainty, you could get laid off.
发言人   05:23
The government job looks so much Better because no chance you will get laid off. Good benefits you get, a house you get to get. So you know, that's why this tremendous demand for these government jobs, I think it's a reflection not so much of b government jobs becoming more attractive, but the fact that relative to the Young people entering the labor force, the private sector jobs have not kept peace.
发言人   05:52
You don't see so many good private sector jobs available. And that should be a source of worry. That is something that we need to work on.
发言人   06:00
Yeah, you just mentioned the apples kind of don't like menu jobs. I think in that sense, china and india is rather similar. You know, dan byron of china, S.
发言人   06:11
EM, told me that a chAllenge for chinese stock market, while in the U. S. A restaurant, waiters are very popular for american college students.
发言人   06:20
That's an interesting point. There is AA certain dignity of labor, which you see in the united states. Anybody working IT doesn't matter what the job is. They treated with respect and and I think certainly in india, we need to ensure that, that is true. I think it's true legally in the sense that you cannot mistreat a work of no matter what they doing.
发言人   06:49
But I think from a prestige perspective, there are certain jobs which I look down upon even today, and it's important we recognize that all jobs are important and a worthy of respect. Now, increasingly, you are seeing Young people, especially if they learned some skills, which, in more working with the hand, see that, you know, having a decent job, even if IT is a manual job, is Better than having no job. So you are seeing some willingness to work with hands, but it's something we need to inculcate earlier.
发言人   07:26
Yeah, you also just mentioned that the private sector, I think in your book you talk about your experience when present obama of the U. S. Visit india back in two thousand. 1 on news headline，we see major india business tycoons holding very luxury wedding for their daughters.
发言人   07:44
Are there kind of social prestige still not that great in india? We in china also have this issue that I think six, seven perhaps is more kind of looked up, uh, bind the society. I, I, I think it's a little different.
发言人   08:02
And we in some societies, you have to burn money to show how which you are, right? You have to spend a lot of money to show that you can afford to spend that money. I think there's a little bit of that, but I also think it's the constraint on spending have gone.
发言人   08:24
They used to be earlier some reluctance to spend the huge amount when there were so many poor people that has evaporated. And I think it's concerned because people look at some of these very rich people and say, how did they get their money? I think it's Better to have a society where nobody grudges the rich, their money.
发言人   08:51
Then one way, everybody is constantly wondering whether they got IT by legal and fair means or buy something which is not so legal and more crooked. So I actually think this development, while I don't say that we should put constraints on spending, I would rather that from a sense of what is decent, what is reasonable, that the very rich don't front their wealth in people's faces because he does raise a question of the legitimacy of wealth. Yeah, I was quite attracted by the introduction to the book.
发言人   09:28
One sentence reads, are indians doing well? I think in china, we have the tendency of thinking, especially last year, india would be the superpower, say the number two or number three by two thousand forty or two thousand fifty. But from my book and looking now, is the unemployment rate as well as labor force participation, and perhaps also the female labor force participation still very chAllenged? Any improvement? So I think this is a question of is the cup half or her family, and I think you can call IT both ways half.
发言人   10:05
With the exception of china and maybe south korea, there are very, very few countries which have grown as past as india has over the last three decades. It's surround an average for around six percent growth a year in real terms, which of course, china has grown faster. Of course, south korea grow faster.
发言人   10:25
But relative to almost everybody else, india has been one of the grow stories OK. And for the large country of its size, that's very commendable. Is IT enough? That's the question we ask.
发言人   10:39
And six percent is not enough. But even in china, there are fears of growing old before china grows rich. I think the fears are even more pronounced in india because we are growing from a lower level of the captain income.
发言人   10:53
India is far powder than china. That's one of the reasons we wanted to write this book to say that it's good to feel proud but don't feel too proud because there's a long way to go for india ahead. And I don't think it's useful for india to start saying with become a super part, there's still a long way to go.
发言人   11:17
India will probably overtake japan if IT hasn't already overtaken IT in terms of the economic size. So IT becomes number four and so IT will be bigger than germany. But IT is a far away away from both china and the united states.
发言人   11:36
And what is important for india is to think not so much on theme GDP of the country, but also about the GDP per person, where india is quite low, probably the lowest in the g twenty. So india needs to work on increasing the per capital income, which means both the rate of growth but also the distribution of that growth. You were just talking, we have some very, very rich indians.
发言人   12:03
We have a lot more billionaire than some other countries. But IT IT would also be important to have the wealth spread out a little more. Yeah, briefly, we know in the U.
发言人   12:14
S. It's like a ten percent vers ninety percent, something like that in india. You mention in the book the upper middle house fearing very well over the past ten years, but the other people are not doing that well.
发言人   12:27
What would be the kind of approximate percentage for these two groups in india? You know, I IT is cute, but I don't know the right number. Pickety has some data on IT, but a lot of people chAllenge ed pickety data on india.
发言人   12:42
So I don't know what the right number of is. What is almost surely true is that the wealth at the very top is quite concentrated. And if you look at the top one percent of indians, they owe a significant portion of the wealth, probably get a significant portion of the income.
发言人   13:03
But I think what is more important from india's perspective is how many people, or at the age of preparation. So what india has done is ensure that everybody gets food grains. So poverty where you can't eat is, for the most part, his free.
发言人   13:23
The few people who are not getting the food grains, for some reason, I fall now out of the system, but legally they should get IT. But what india needs to do is ensure that more people have steady incomes so that they move from the edge where they just get enough to eat and keep body and sold together to where they actually can have a more fulfilling life. And that requires much Better incomes than we have right now.
发言人   13:51
So that's the margin on which india has to do a lot of work. Yeah I noticed recently lulu lemon, the canadian outfit. Company also entered india market. Is that also shows the kind of there is kind of the coin, india, the upper middle class india is doing very well, well at the lower and helps the consumption market, domestic market, haven't the and I think IT depends.
发言人   14:14
So right now, if you see the lower in market is speaking up quite strongly because we have a very good monsoon, a good harvest for last couple of years. And so if you look at consumption is stronger at the middle bottom right now, then at the top now that said, you know, india also has liberian is being sold in india. And you know some people drive maybe acks.
发言人   14:42
And you know, those are signs of what we talked about earlier, that the very Richard shift little IT to the impact of AIS, the cutting of jobs of twelve thousand by a india information service company. I think generally, india information service company have been doing very well over the past few years, but not that well this year. I think you also mention consulting company is a little bit under chAllenge.
发言人   15:12
Does that mean, say, a direct service export, say, in IT, in consulting, could be chAllenge going forward? So far, what we see is some flattening out, but no strong, deep in service exports. And indian service exports have been the serve growth story post pyne mic, I think that you should be expecting some job relocations as technological change happens.
发言人   15:44
So data consulting services, which uh announced the twelve thousand job cut, it's twelve thousand from a workforce of six hundred thousand. So it's two percent of the workforce. And they talked about cutting in the middle and upper medal management levels. So basically they trying to prune the workforce presumedly get in people who are much more tool LED up to the needs of the moment, which means Better able to use AI related software tools to write software.
发言人   16:17
So I don't think this is necessarily indicative of a tremendous wrinkles in software jobs, but I do think IT is extremely important for the indian software industry to keep a of the new tools that are emerging and be able to use them in an effective way. You have stayed in the U. S.
发言人   16:38
For many years. We see recently there are lots of layoffs. The extent that JP. Morgan talking about jobless recovery, uh, in the drop market, what's interesting is what's most pronounced the layoffs in actually in the tech company, why is is that? I think they've been some layouts in the tech sector.
发言人   16:59
Some of IT is because we are seeing some productivity improvements coming in from AI in the tech sector. But IT can work both ways, right? If you can programme in a cheaper way, there's more demand for programing. So some of this is also because the tech sector has hired a lot in recent years and is taking the opportunity of uh, you know a breather.
发言人   17:25
So how much of IT is because of AI? How much of IT is because the tech sector over higher, just like the consulting sector over higher during the pandemic and is looking to get a more rational workforce. That said, going forward, there will be lots of opportunities to apply AI two firms in their Operations.
发言人   17:47
We haven't even begun to touch that. And that would mean more engineers, soft engineers at such a to do that work. IT would also mean more data scientists to collect the data, to put IT in a Better shape for AI to use and so on.
发言人   18:04
So I think it's early days yet. I don't think we see rampant joblessness created by yet. That is not to say cannot come, we can.
发言人   18:15
But of course, when that happens, there will be hopefully new jobs that open up. I think it's true of every technology revolution that there's a feeling this is the big one and people will not have jobs after this. Well, I turns out that's not been true so far.
发言人   18:37
And we will find possibly new ways of inventing jobs. IT may be harder, that is a possibility. But to argue that no one will have jobs, they'll be one person putting on the AI switch and everything.
发言人   18:50
I will work automatically. I think that little real yeah, that's a very interesting point. Uh, we have we haven't seen a lot of new job created in this segment of the employment market. We have been seen these lay of numbers. But actually in the overall unemployment figures in US, I think it's still at a around four is a historic law.
发言人   19:14
How to explain that? Is is is the issue structural, meaning that at the lower and perhaps due to the title immigration policy, the lower and implement situations very good and very tight? Well, I think that's part of the explanation.
发言人   19:30
The supply has shunk, especially at the lower end. But I think if you look at the layoffs mean, yes, you hear some sort of headline numbers about layoff s by some software company or the other. But overall, layoff s haven't increased.
发言人   19:46
They have been relatively stable and flat. And so what's been changing is hiring. Hiring has come down, but layoff s haven't picked up yet.
发言人   19:56
That is not to say they will not pick up, but IT is to say that so far in the U. S. Economy, you haven't seen a big increase in the offit quickly or productivity.
发言人   20:05
I think back two thousand twenty three, you mentioned it's not show up that much. How's the situation right now in terms of the production figures? And how IT is that mainly from AI impact or say kind of other factors.
发言人   20:19
Such activity has been reasonably good in the last few quarters now is IT AI. It's hard to say. I mean, AI lots of things are called AI and some forms of automation also, sometimes one could permit.
发言人   20:34
I think part of what has also been happening is sunday we talked about earlier because of the cut down in immigration, the supply of labor has also grown more slowly, which sometimes may mean you that people are holding on to workers and don't want to let go, which tend would tend to diminish productivity. So the fact that productivity has been reasonable despite some of those kinds of labor hood ding concerns and so on, would suggest maybe something is happening. But do you want really know unto you? Look back in a three or four years downland.
发言人   21:13
yeah. Shooting to india. There is also in the service sector, the lower end of service shops. Does that still holds great promise under AI? Because we think at the moment, many of the menu jobs still can't be handled by AI.
发言人   21:31
I think the issue of what is gonna be automated and what is not what you've seen over the last so many years as manufacturing is increasingly automated. As you know, they've been substantial job losses in manufacturing in china. Manufacturing is being automated now.
发言人   21:48
Services increasingly will be automated. But I also, for example, today searching for cases as air gets Better. I'm a lawyer and i'm searching for president cases AI is probably going to do a reasonable job getting me the case. I want something that would take a legal aid many hours to do. Some of those jobs can be replaced and will be replaced.
发言人   22:18
Now the question is, can the leg retrain themselves to be able to use the ai so that they can actually feel the query from the lawyer, which says, I want these cases, I want them check to make sure that they're write. And so the legal assistant now becomes also the filter to make sure that the air is not halcon ating. And the cases are, in fact, the right ones, that kind of value added to work, maybe where some of those people in the industry goal.
发言人   22:52
But I think broadly, anybody who's doing committee work should be a little watered commodity. Physical work may survive a little longer, but that something that also can be automated, we managed to automate locking fruit from the tree. We will figure out how to automate cleaning sures.
发言人   23:12
There will be more machines doing things over time. And what we need to do is make sure that people have the flexibility to move to areas where automation is harder at. What you mention is very interesting.
发言人   23:28
Uh, course, I think golden earlier write a peace saying, human robot is perhaps five or ten years away from widespread application. They only have ninety degree of freedom so they can do a lot of jobs. And use mentioned, india still have a great organization potential.
发言人   23:45
So there are a lot of potential from plumbers, construction workers. So what you just mention, maybe in the not so distant future, this could also be automated. I think that any job can be automated.
发言人   24:01
Your job can be automated. My job can be automated. When should we start worry? I think there's a lot of hype also when people say this is gonna three years.
发言人   24:11
Remember when they started saying would be seeing driverless trucks under the highway? Only now are we seeing them coming on the highway. And we still haven't seen a wholesale automation of taxes. They're happening, but in small places, experimental, maybe one city things like that, right?
发言人   24:30
I think it's important to be open to the idea that there can be substantial automation, ed, but also recognize that the industry has a temptation to hyped and to say everything will go in the next few years. What is important is to understand that capabilities are increasing of the machines, and therefore, we have to increase the capabilities of the humans. That's why a book is a lot more about how do we increase the capabilities of the humans because we don't know what jobs they will have to do, but we do know that almost surely they will need Better capabilities to do the jobs there.
发言人   25:08
There there is an immediate issue of, you know, how do we train up more indians to get the jobs that are that they need because india has a problem of joblessness. And that means more specific killing would be very useful. Uh, what you just mentioned, carpenters plummers, that could be a job that last for fifteen, twenty years before IT is automated.
发言人   25:32
So getting more people into that would be a good thing right now. But I think the question of what's the secure job for the next of century, I think neither you nor I know where's gonna be and we have to viana y yeah. In terms of how we as individuals prepare for IT, I think you recently rode with the coauthor of this book on GCC model, maybe at this, and you emphasize freedom for universities to combat this issue.
发言人   26:01
And wondering, should there be reason the focus of our education, say, in china, we also wondering a lot of this engineering and technical education, is that still useful? Many would think it's very useful. They would choose AI related majors.
发言人   26:19
But there are people like a rew OCEO bridge water saying they are a moving their hiring more to the kind of people have critical thinking and conceptual skills. Uh, that seems more like liberal arts education. Uh, from your vantage point based in chicago, what would you recommend?
发言人   26:37
Uh, internal the focus of people's choice. I'd be very hesitant and recommending anything clearly if you told somebody learn the basics of software, learn software programming. Ah you have to worry that maybe what they really need to know is the architecture of software rather than necessary programing.
发言人   26:58
They need to how to learn how to put together the pieces and be able to constantly remind themselves to stay ahead of the algorithms. But I think it's important to recognize that we tend to see something that is possible and think, okay, just a year before this comes. IT takes a long time for industry to actually incorporate what is technically possible.
发言人   27:29
Sometimes you have to bring down the cost of what is technically possible. Sometimes you have to bring down the risks of what is technically possible because the research too high, even if it's relatively small. As you know, when we've seen these driverless cars, what the public wants is pretty much zero risk of any kind of accident, even though we know that humans driving cars have more accidents.
发言人   27:55
So there are all sorts of requirements that we impose on the new technologies, including just the reluctance of firms to take them up because IT takes time to be comfortable and to actually roll them out. So I would say there is still time, but I think it's important to recognize that a lot of work will be chAllenged by machines and algorithms going forward. And so it's important to understand that you have something more than that, whether it's more creative engineering or IT is french literature.
发言人   28:35
I don't know which one I will be. We have to wait and see. But what you basically need is the ability to move yourself and reinvent yourself.
发言人   28:45
And that kind of flexibility comes from a strong education. Yeah in china, one's interesting phenomenon, we notice, is india doing management of CEO jobs in the U. S.
发言人   29:00
I count the CEO of alphabet, google, microsoft, micron, as well as the president of the whole bank啊，all of indian origin. And I recently discovered the CEO of chanel is also india, the first. Now french C, C, E, O of in your book, you mentioned this interesting story that mr.
发言人   29:22
Yan, once a joke with you, the biggest chAllenge of international conferences, getting japanese officials to speak and getting india delegate to stop talking. And just wondering what's behind indians doing very well at the top of U. S.
发言人   29:38
Business sector? Is the a tendency to talk or say talk to veness helps also is a good question. First, I would love to know the statistics.
发言人   29:50
Are the indians over represented in the sea suit or not come to chinese? Well, yeah, maybe. But this there is certainly a language different.
发言人   30:01
Sometimes there sometimes not many chinese who spent uh, a large number of years in the U. S, but those who come to the U. S.
发言人   30:10
And then learn english. You might imagine that there is more of a chAllenge in coming up to speed on english, but I say it's not so much. First, I would love to know the statistics. I don't know if the indians over represented relative to, say, the White americans or second generation asians and so on.
发言人   30:30
But the possibility that sometimes strikes me for asians, not just indians, but asians in general, uh, finding IT somewhat easier in the human capital intensive firms is that asians tend to be a little more group oriented, that sort of the Carry catch of asian cultures, right? It's not so much individual as group oriented. And maybe in human character intensive firms where every person is very, very strong and strong world, having leaders were more willing to listen, more willing to talk about the group and one might be beneficial.
发言人   31:15
That's passes first. I don't know if the data support what you just said, but its a hypothesis were testing are the asians more able to Carry along a group relative to more individualism cultures? I don't know.
发言人   31:32
I think at chicago, you also have many chinese students. Some of them also call author with you for papers. What's your observation between chinese and indian students? But i'd say each person is individually different.
发言人   31:50
So I, I, I don't want to generalize between the stones. I would say that for a long while, and I hope it's not changing. But for a long while, we got spectacular students from china, truly outstanding both at the M, B, A level, but also at the P, HD level.
发言人   32:10
And of course, since every P, C program got really good chinese tone's, they also came and joined the faculty. Some of my very, very capable Young colleagues, uh, from china. I think it's been very beneficial to have the same flux.
发言人   32:29
India, I think for a while in the seventies and the eighties, some of the best and the brightest came to the U. S. As the indian job situation improved for the well educated.
发言人   32:42
We didn't see a fall of in the students coming here. Maybe the changes again. And we see very strong indian students coming.
发言人   32:52
But for a while, the quantum of very good students fell off a little bit. And we have to see how that changes. We also have several nobel Laura noble economic law s from india.
发言人   33:04
And there are few of your statue in the U. S. Among foreign economists.
发言人   33:11
Do you think indian student or chinese students should still aspire to steady in the us? Given the current situation in the united states, I am hopeful that Better sense prevails in the united states. Sensible people in the united is understand how this country has emerged.
发言人   33:35
Why so many of the innovations a colleague was just showing me um you know, where's most of the innovations happen? And even today, despite the increase in china's capabilities, despite europe, the bulk of the innovations still happened in the U. S.
发言人   33:54
Why is that? Because IT has historical, attracted very good people from across the world, and it's given them a chance to flourish. And IT has supported them.
发言人   34:04
IT has encouraged them to come. IT has supported them. And as you said, lots have become C.
发言人   34:10
E. S. Lots have become very respected academics. So I think that is the united states trend. IT is something that can be eroded by two or actions.
发言人   34:24
And i'm hopeful that whatever actions are taken against immigrants, against students, we recognize the home that he can do in the way the U. S. Has succeeded.
发言人   34:40
The helmet can do to the U. S. Success story and that some of IT becomes history. Certainly I can see within the university, the environment is still very hospitable. I also think that this, you know, there is some talk about visas being more scrutinised.
发言人   34:58
I understand that most of our students now have got visas and that are trying to streamline the process. So I do hope that some of the concerns may not be warranted and that the U. S.
发言人   35:12
Still continues to be a hospitable place for students from all over the world. Interesting development is india. I have good engineers, as you mention in the book, doing very well on some of the consulting or IT service area.
发言人   35:26
China recently have many good AI researchers, is said the cigar valley, maybe close to fifty percent or many of the top scientists or engineers at this tech giants are actually of chinese origin and when I go to say china development forum, I think C, E, O will talk about china's engineering dividend as opposed to kind of population dividend earlier. Do you think there will be competition between chinese and india in this area, and there could be different areas where they excel at? I mean, that's that's possible.
发言人   36:01
I hope that, that's how IT works out. I do think that china is ahead of india in improving the quality of its universities. You've got some fantastic university elections were which are technical university is comparable with the best in the world. India has good universities, but he needs to invest more in those universities to bring them up to world leading standards. And so india has some way to go.
发言人   36:29
One of the arguments in the book is india needs to put more money into its top research outfits, maybe take a leaf out of the chinese book, bring some of more capable researchers outside back to india to lead efforts in india. More work is needed there, but i'm hopeful that these tall, very large asian countries cancer of work together, as opposed working against each other, and there are many areas where they don't need to go head to head. Yeah, what interesting situation is, say, work intensity.
发言人   37:09
We recently have a little spat with the indian trees neun saying this ninety hour work, uh, should not be descended in china. We recently is complaining or combating this evolution, everybody putting so much time and so much money to kind of drive down the Prices and making everyone's life for worse off. Do you think china pips is moving too much on this front, working too hard, and india could be a little bit more proactive or is right in taking the worklife baLance? This depends from place to please.
发言人   37:46
I mean, the you know, we have just on this book. I found my publisher in india. They worked so hard on getting the social media to getting the kind of engagement.
发言人   38:00
I have never seen that kind of effort in the west. So that was one point where I thought the group in india worked really, really hard, but also really, really creatively in pushing publicity for the book. There are places where india needs a little more professionalism, a little more sense of work.
发言人   38:23
They can so on. I mean, IT differs from place to place. So this pat was more about some CEO saying the norm should be h everybody works really, really hard for a really long time.
发言人   38:36
In some places that's useful. Some places is the suffix to be burned out and not be creative at all. And maybe we need creative people, rather than people who work.
发言人   38:47
Show the boss that there at the office. Yeah, this fifty percent terf on india could then say indian GDP from around seven percent to six percent that could make job creation more chAllenging for india. But i'm also wondering, uh, is the issue also in the structure of job creation? Because service seems to be more labor intensive while manufacturing is is less.
发言人   39:12
What's your thinking on the biggest chAllenge here? All the kind of a sector allocation. But I think both because india needs to grow GDP faster r to become richer, but IT also needs more jobs.
发言人   39:26
The job intensity of GDP also needs to be higher. If you look at indian manufacturing is much more automated and the job intensive portions, the sectors aren't growing as fast. And of them, unfortunately, I onna be hit by these terrifying.
发言人   39:43
I don't think we hit to GDP will be as large as one percent even if these tariff stay. I think also that there's some hope that they will be negotiated to a the more reasonable level sooner rather later. But I do think that even at six percent and some change, india is going too slowly.
发言人   40:04
So india needs to grow faster. And that means figuring out how to grow both of its domestic oriented economy, but also its external oriented sectors. Yes, china is traditionally also emphasizing manufacturing to this date, but on the margin is playing more emphasis on service sector growth.
发言人   40:26
How important is a this development of services? Sometimes people would the look at is not kind of heart technology or heart things. What are some cases that this could be really helpful for growth and employment?
发言人   40:41
What I mean, yeah, you can see with the even deep seek, which has made a big impression in china, that is a service it's a service business and IT has had a large impact. If you look at employment in industrial countries, it's about seventy percent and services may be ten percent in manufacturing and you know ten, fifteen percent across the rest. So I think country is move naturally towards a more service to the economy, and the employment and manufacturing becomes more productive, but also becomes a smaller and smaller fraction of the economy for a while.
发言人   41:22
So II don't think china is different. I think over time, its service sector will increase substantially. Now the big question is to what extent with chinese service exports take off and that that I think, uh, an important question that, uh, the chinese authorities must be asking.
发言人   41:42
And there there are some issues, right, because services are much more data or entered nowadays. There are issues of data privacy. There are issues toward extend the government cancer of intervene in some of the data and acquire the data that companies get.
发言人   42:01
So I think many uh, emerging markets and developing countries need to think about how they can facilitate service exports, knowing that issues like data privacy are really important for other countries. For, you know, people who are buying these services, they want to have conference that the data will not be widely misused. So services bring a whole new set of issues that need to be dealt with.
发言人   42:31
And I think countries have to do a Better job dealing with them. One last question on the capital market. India stock market has been doing very well over the past ten years, maybe not this year.
发言人   42:43
But you mention the private sector investment is not that impressive over the past ten years. Why the stock market could perform that well? Is that many because of pension found for one k type of arrangement that helped some of IT? Is indian money coming into the market.
发言人   43:01
So you see a huge expansion and individual investors and more of them willing to hold stocks portfolio OS by earlier, they used to have only bank deposit. So the expansion in participation is probably part of the reason. But I also think that indian firms, especially the big ones, have worked quite hard on increasing profitability.
发言人   43:24
So the fact that they are not investing that much may have implications about the growth rate, but certainly, they're been very careful about the cost and profitability has been quite good, growth also has been reasonable. So I think when he put IT all together still this puzzle, why aren't they investing so much? Why aren't investing more at this point? But certainly, they seem reasonably profitable, which is one reason the stock market has done well.
发言人   43:53
Yeah so these companies are doing relatively wow. Well, maybe some of the lower action of the society perhaps need some helping but yeah, so thank you very much. Professor rogan, thank you.
发言人   44:08
You've done so much preparation. congratulations. The book is a very informative for us.
发言人   44:14
Chinese wanting to learn india, it's very important to know, but that resources. Thank you. Thank you. Good night.