TITLE: This Is How Big Money Is Trading the War in Iran | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 2400  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-26T13:58:21+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KNia2t6JHg8
SHA256: 3dc9833847ba3093800c4dd6c499641a8cb7ab9bba9a91d302185e645a2f4f07

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2008] It's not 2008, maybe 2001.
  [2022] highs in 2022
  [2026] March 25th, 2026. It's 9:10 a.m. Are you
  [2020] early February 2020. While we all saw
  [2001] It's not 2008, maybe 2001.
  [50%] big is going to happen, Schumer, how 50%
  [3.93] top tick 3.93.
  [3800] 3,800, now it's during that episode it
  [5500] got over $5,500 and now it's nearly
  [2025] April 9th, 2025 moment. This is when
  [112.50] traded around 112.50, 113 as we speak.
  [8000] 8,000? Why?
  [2007] 2007-2008,
  [1%] quote unquote 1% problem. But, what if
  [2%] was not heading down to 2% as many

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
radio, news.
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. [music] And I'm Tracy
Alloway. Tracy, we're recording this
March 25th, 2026. It's 9:10 a.m. Are you
going to do the seconds as well? No.
But the reason they do mention the time
when the cash trading in the stock
market hasn't opened. The reason I
mentioned the time is not just because
things are moving fast. But to establish
we've had market moving headlines
already this morning. Oh, absolutely.
got some headlines attributed to the
Fars News Agency out of Iran saying
there is no interest in talks, there's
no interest in ceasefire, the US
position about pursuing a ceasefire is
illogical. That moved futures down a
little bit. We're, you know, it's a
cliche, you know, a headline driven
market. You hear that a lot. The last
several weeks have felt like the
headline driven market to drive all
headline driven markets. No, it really,
I know it's a cliche, but it really is a
headline driven market. And I think part
of the issue here is because no one's
entirely sure what the goals are when it
comes to Iran. It's really hard to judge
progress of the conflict on any sort of
fundamental basis, right? So all you can
look at is basically what Trump and the
other two sides are saying and so you
get these big reactions every time they
tweet something or post on Truth Social
and then tend to contradict each other.
Absolutely. And you know, I do think,
look, there is this extreme level of
skepticism from almost any headline you
get out of the US White House.
I think if you go back to the
post-liberation day environment,
particularly with the sort of modest
rapprochement with China, you would get
these headlines we're talking and then
the Chinese would put out a headline
we're not talking, but then it turns out
that there was a little bit more talk
than what maybe the Chinese had had
admitted to. So often I think as much as
you dis as many people are inclined to
disbelieve headlines, I don't think
people disbelieve them entirely.
When Trump said yesterday that the
Iranians had sent him a prize that was
extremely valuable and it's like oof.
I mean, that's tough to take seriously,
but what is there some modest signal? I
don't know, it's really tough. It's
really tough. But I you know, I just
want to say two other things real
quickly on this, which is that even with
the headline today about Iran rejecting
ceasefire, futures are still up. So it's
not like people have like completely,
oh, nothing's happening. And for all the
talk about and we've had multiple guests
and I they're the smartest people in the
world talk about oh, oil is going to
surge the longer this goes on. As of the
time we're talking about this, Brent
crude is still right around or just
under $100. We haven't had the mega
surge yet. So
I like to take markets seriously even if
sometimes I don't always understand what
they're doing. Well, the big question to
me is whether or not markets are still
in denial, right? And you see people
talking about like, oh,
people are being very optimistic about
the future. I saw the Morgan Stanley
report saying that corporate profits
were going to go up later this year. The
oil price, again, we're talking about
the closure of the Strait of Hormuz,
which is the sort of thought experiment
that has bedeviled oil analysts for
decades and yet, you know, the reaction
has been kind of muted. Yeah. Meanwhile,
in the rates market, there's a lot going
on there, too, and you still have a lot
of bond traders who are very reluctant
to price out the possibility of a rate
cut later this year. Completely. And it
feels like the idea of a rate cut, at
least for now, does not seem anywhere
near the quote table, but yeah. Anyway,
so how do traders even like make sense
of this headline? How do they know what
headlines to believe? Why does there
sometimes seem to be this gap between
what a lot of people think the market
should be and where it actually is? Very
excited to say we have one of the most
plugged-in people that we know. It's
someone who is talking to people who
move serious money every single day. He
goes around the world and he has dinners
with them and he talks to them about
their trades. He even brought us a nice
gift, which is his tour [laughter] A
tour t-shirt. It is the cover the macro
dinners 2026 tour with a nice Deutsche
Bank logo.
just to give an idea.
London, Jan 21st, Geneva, Jan 29th,
Milan, Miami, Budapest, London, New York
City, Montreal, Copenhagen, Riyadh,
Doha, Dubai, etc. You get the idea. He's
always talking to people and he has the
one of the most plugged-in people that
we talk to. We are going to be speaking,
of course, to the one and only Ozan
Torman, vice chair of global macro at
Deutsche Bank. So uh
Ozan, thank you for coming back on Odd
Lots. Joe and Tracy, it's an absolute
pleasure. Highlights of the week really
close to where I used to live in New
York City as well. Uh it's great having
you here in studio. It's a pretty wild
market to trade, I assume. Very, very
wild market to trade and on the t-shirt,
unfortunately, for example, the three
odds, Qatar,
Dubai leg that I was looking forward to,
we'll see what happens.
we'll see what happens with with that,
but not necessarily untradable. Still,
traders always smell things, always have
a sense of where the pain trade is,
where the momentum is. Even walking in
now, I became a veteran of this
wonderful show. I was thinking this time
around we should really say Wednesday
night
works.
Well, you know, I I know that what I can
say now one day later may look a little
bit different, etc., etc., but still
walking in now, obviously, it's a big
cliche to say it takes two to tango or
taco, three maybe. But that being said,
at the moment the pain trade, the
momentum trade is for this equity rally
and oil fall to continue.
There are many, unfortunately, I have
told all my clients, friends, fans,
wounded, hurt players out there.
Certainly in rates market, certainly on
front end. So people are reluctant to
take fresh bets, but as I constantly
hold these conversations, round tables,
I do get the sense that now getting to
know the president well as well, people
did expect this we won the war, I won
the war, mission accomplished moment,
which he's trying to do in a few ways.
Then the big debate is yes, and we do
get these spikes of equity higher, oil
lower. At the end, as you rightly said,
even Brent is lower than 100 and we
should talk WTI, WTI is even lower.
But do you fade it or not? That's what
it boils down to.
Another big true cliche is what does
Iran do? What does Iran say as we speak
because of Fars, like you said, Israel
12 said that these talks are happening.
Fars, Iran said no, we're still waiting.
Which one to fade? That's the big
question mark. My gut feel from what I
sense from the clients is
there is room for a squeeze here in
equity higher, oil lower, but the tail
risk is very, very fat. Yeah. All right,
so talk to us more about positioning. I
mean, going into this war, I think
everyone was pretty much expecting rate
cuts later in the year, oil prices,
nothing dramatic there, certainly.
Did everyone just change very, very
quickly and now we're left with
positioning that can lead to a bigger
squeeze higher? Very relevant question.
I want to take us back to February 27th,
the night before the attack on Iran.
Again, I was visiting Palm Beach and
Miami and the feel couldn't be more
different. The main obsession, focus of
the US client base, the key players was
AI. Mhm. Something
big is going to happen, Schumer, how 50%
of white-collar jobs could be lost in 12
to 18 months.
So finally, not only rate cut
expectations were increasing, we were we
were getting bull flatteners, so even
long end was coming down. Thursday,
Friday, it was around 4:05 and I do
remember before Iran, US 10-year closed
top tick 3.93.
And cannot be named but some one of
those more legendary friends, clients of
mine, comes to me with an email, Ozan,
we nailed this, this, that, bond is the
……（中部抽样）……
new gold. Well, we need to talk about
did bring this on paper because very,
multi-trillion question is can the rest
Another observation, today reminds me of
a pandemic. The S&amp;P made new all-time
positioning for a second. The last time
conversation, I'm like, oh god, this is
got over $5,500 and now it's nearly
not working at once? The steepener trade
forced to liquidate the one big winning
all started with gold Nvidia, gold
sign.
something that comes from the left field
the repercussions on the position is
markets were big winners. Yeah. So, that
days, it's not weeks, it's going to
defense mechanisms.
these gold reserves for a reason. So,
strong hands for understandable reasons
steepeners first, then they believed in
onto it. Monday after Iran, warflation,
Jersey.
at least hold ECB, and certainly cut
below three now for both.
liquidation or, you know, a pod shop
the cliche is oh, investment bank will
really something called bad volatility.
p.m. to Saturday 11:00 p.m. to
people say the best thing is blank piece
this market as untradable.
flat is the new up. If you have
April 9th, 2025 moment. This is when
through it. I have my doubts, but maybe.
A pain trade, I mean, it's not the ideal
quant trading,
as
players almost want to believe because
so much, and when it works just the
smaller instances, like for the past 15
ratios, dedollarization,
whenever one has a chance. Now, all of a
If we trade towards the 110, 111 before
Why? Because it's going to further shake
opens conversation, right? Sometimes you
Consensus is going to continue to work.
weird situation where like, okay, people
plenty of people talking about
market right now, maybe you don't want
about the, I guess, like US
selling your US assets to more hedge
beginning of January, February, all
Tell us about it.
ratios had become fashionable. But
you know, he has this
It doesn't. Part of the reason is
But unfortunately, as I sit here, as I
hat,
wounds will especially stay in oil and
is Europe. So, in an understanding way,
fashionable
the FX,
basically, okay, there's this long-term
relative competitiveness and
of the length of the war, in a period of
bit more about oil because
this is
highs in 2022
actually right now when I'm talking
see it. There is nothing that any of us
than the market does. So, talk to us
the oil knowers versus the prices, which
for my next
molecules.
used the you can't print molecules.
same. That actually reminds me of a
WhatsApping him like Pepe the frog
way. Anyway, that's a bit of a
internet. We all Everyone says
So, this friend of mine, ex-colleague, I
he talks math. So, MIT, Russia's MIT,
high all the time.
This guy doesn't say here.
Asian refineries are very very starved.
I get it. Brent versus what WTI WTI is
If we have a lot of talk but one way or
fear that
logic. But the people in the oil market
companies who are having to hedge
longer this goes on blah blah blah the
that can be said.
haven't sold off that much, why credit
people do believe that this squeeze
somebody in Islamabad, whether president
believe that in 3 months time, 6 months
private credit. That's why the tail is
approaching. We're talking about cargo
that taking control of Hormuz once
lives being lost, but even Joe one or
payroll. So, even on one
think it back to markets. Okay, you have
not backing away. They're saying Madame
pricing. I will hike." But she did say
want to be seen late.
kind of gotten overshadowed by the Iran
a sentence I never thought I would say
both sides to some extent using AI
is going and what they're trying to
like a Lego video showing Trump doing
seriously about them?
forwarding each other the the things,
signs.
potential Islamabad meeting versus what
connected than the other. All of these
spicy complicated in a way. We do have
on the useful side, yeah, there's
Look at this." That helps. You know, I'm
brings me you know, you're someone who
about the business of Dubai? There was a
like Dubai not probably not I've never
fun than Jersey.
assume.
flowing into the Gulf?
there beyond the this industry other
friends. In Dubai you have to give even
memory. Do remember COVID. But at the
people go back to London. Maybe places
affects the sentiment as well. By the
It was that too. So, not only from that
Abdullah to Faisal etc. You know, there
sentiment. So, way before the war is
my hope and thinking a year from now
short term
going to be speaking in Miami at a
have all these headlines coming out
starting to get frustrated with this
in private credit is like, "Well, this
this is exactly what's supposed to
with withdrawals. And if you think about
and financing for companies in America,
conditions
credit space? And when you're doing your
Right before Iran it was all about
of course it all started with Iran, but
involved people to more macro tourists
That to me immediately a bit of an
not going away. If anything they are
if it wasn't for Iran. And by the way,
like a quote unquote US and Israel's
The key thing to watch is at the moment
see the headlines, you're not going to
tonight on my macro dinner. It's a
If people cannot take their own money
very resilient and of course watch out
not systemic. I get it. But, you know,
leverage is not there. Thank God we may
quote unquote 1% problem. But, what if
What if insurance companies get hit more
It's going to be okay. It's almost like
one of the things we're talking about is
weeks is there's growing evidence that
might attribute some of them to the war
dollars for defense. That's more
story in rates is simply that the data
people had maybe wishcasted. And that's
On Feb 7th It's closed.
war, etc. But, for the market as well,
genie is completely out of the bottle
we wrap up, this whole rationing. That's
Hormuz and the and the problems. After a
We may very soon be at a point when some
more important than that, I need to give
you know, don't use that air
understandable reasons, but what about
travel. All of this stuff will hurt
……（接近结尾）……
travel right now. But, especially with
all the lines you see in the US. No,
seriously.
want to cancel as much as I can.
we're debating whether or not to go to
an external event and you're like,
"Yeah, I want to go." I don't want to go
right now. I don't want to go to
anything. But anyway, seriously, you
know, I do think like this is the thing
that I think about a lot, which is that
I've always been a take market seriously
and sometimes take them literally guy.
And I actually really don't like
so secret. And I really don't like, you
know, there will be a headline from the
White House and oil will go down and
everyone will say, "Oh, they're people
are so stupid. They're being you know,
the investors are so stupid. Traders are
so stupid. There's a lie, whatever." And
I'm like, "I don't know about that."
But, like my point is there's a lot of
money on the line for people who are
paid to take this very seriously.
And if oil is trading below 100, I take
that seriously and I want to understand
why there's the gap because there's
nothing that all of us online and in the
media know that the people with a lot of
money on the line don't know, right?
This is a a fact. And I do think that's
a very interesting point that the people
with a lot at stake, yeah, oil is high,
but it's certainly not at the
hair-on-fire levels that either that we
even saw in 2022.
also is a divorce between the financial
and the physical. That's true. That's
true.
that you're not going to have to take
delivery at some point, but at the same
time if you're after the physical
barrels,
you can't get those at the moment. So, I
don't even know how that like actually
relates to price.
see Rory Johnston's always quoted about
the actual physical price in Oman and
it's like significantly higher. But, the
two eventually have to merge, right?
Like they cannot remain disconnected
Yeah, but not for not for a while. So, I
think that disconnect is kind of like
what's in focus at the moment.
you have about a month, right?
people are betting on like I don't have
to worry about it for a month. That's
what I'm saying. Very plausible. It's
it's certainly a very very difficult,
unusual time. I mean, Oh, totally. And
this is the other thing. To your point,
like it is very true that the outcome of
all of this basically hinges on three
players and one player in particular and
at any moment in time you could have
someone come out and announce a
ceasefire, at which point to Ozan's
comments earlier, like you could see an
almighty rally just because of
positioning going into this. You could
see a squeeze like without an agreement.
And so, I think like that's also where a
lot of the nervousness is coming from.
Like no one wants to be caught
completely offside if the conflict
suddenly ends. You know, Ozan used the
term bad vol. Yeah.
Okay, on one hand the trading desks,
sure there's a lot of activity in some
sense and so that is a source of profit.
On the other hand, this is the type of
environment where it's like maybe you
just want to stay away. You want to keep
positions light. If you have a position,
you don't want to like go all in or
anything like that.
and going bad vol, bad, bad. That's it.
All right, shall we leave it there?
another episode of the Odd Lots podcast.
I'm Tracy Alloway. You can follow me at
Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe Weisenthal.
You can follow me at The Stalwart.
Follow our guest Ozan Tormen. He's at
OzanK Tormen. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Arman, Dash
Bennett at Dashbot, and Kel Brooks at
Kel Brooks.
bloomberg.com/oddlots
for a daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. You can chat about all these
topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/oddlots.
And if you enjoy Odd Lots, if you like
it when [music] we bring on Ozan to talk
about his binky, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite podcast
platform. [music]
And remember, if you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely [music] ad free. All
you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcasts and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
Ooh.