TITLE: War in Iran Is Redrawing the Map for Natural Gas | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 2684  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-18T14:26:20+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3hQiNIjp3wM
SHA256: ac7f174361eb3a4a92ae7387b5d39397663de6d1007051195f33555bceab4907

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [20%] It'll be 20%. And so over the next, you
  [2021] remember in in the end of 2021, people
  [2026] scaled up? You know, today in 2026, how
  [30%] Golden Pass. It's 30% XOM, 70% Qatar. It
  [10%] 10% of that would have been LNG exports.
  [2018] 2018, the shale gas industry, and
  [90%] 80-90% of the cost of gas is in the
  [2016] we were in say 2016 or 2021 prior to the
  [70%] Golden Pass. It's 30% XOM, 70% Qatar. It
  [2027] 2026 and 2027. And and many an incorrect
  [2030] know, out to 2030 we'll just be adding
  [7%] When the cost of that gets to 7% of
  [2022] we got in 2022. Right? Today that'd be
  [6%] when the cost of oil is 6% of GDP.
  [100%] the best deal. I'm going to be 100%
  [1000] terminal costs $1,000 a ton. And the
  [25%] That gas field, 25% of the gas is H2S.
  [95%] uplift. I'll pay for 95% conversion and
  [2000] like when we think of the early 2000s,

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
radio, news.
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal.
primarily, at least from a commodity
standpoint, being understood as like an
oil shock. That's the number that most
people are paying attention to.
we've already done, it's not just an oil
region. And of course, we've been
talking about fertilizer in one of our
episodes. We did the episode on other
sort of dry bulk commodity shipping
that's affected by the closure or the
almost closure of the Strait of Hormuz.
There's plenty there. It's not just an
oil story.
this, I guess, is that we're all
becoming commodities ex- supply chain
commodities experts and petrochemicals
as well. I should just say we're
recording this on March 17th cuz who
knows what's going to happen by the time
this episode comes out. But one of the
big headlines today is that Iran has
just struck one of the big gas fields in
the UAE,
empty quarter area. And it's on fire. So
pretty dramatic footage, which
definitely does tend to concentrate your
mind on one particular commodity, which
is gas.
dimensions of the supply chain
disruption, isn't there? Because there
is the fact that for the most part,
there are very few vessels going through
the Strait of Hormuz, and people are
sort of wondering, "When will when will
that open again?" right? But then,
there's the other question of, as you
just mentioned, there's a lot of damage
to core infrastructure of various sorts.
And so setting aside when the Strait
opens, how badly will the production
infrastructure be impaired and how long
will that go on? That's a sort of
separate dimension besides just the
passing of the ships.
have these sort of geopolitical
connotations even before the war with
Iran. We're all used to thinking about,
you know, big strategic pipelines and
thinking about potential disruptions to
those. Back when Russia invaded Ukraine,
there was obviously a European gas
crisis and so everyone's kind of worried
about Europe once again.
the train here talking about how like
Pakistan is very serious like they have
like a month of net gas right now and
they're heavily dependent on gas from
the region. Of course, the fertilizer
story as we learned urea downstream from
net gas etc. Anyway, last year we did
our live episode with one of our
favorite commodities guest Bob Brackett
and I recall
as we were walking out of the theater, I
was like Bob, we got to have you back on
just for like an episode. Let's pick a
commodity. And he said, let's talk about
net next time I'm on, let's talk about
net gas. I was like, all right. And
[laughter] so
perfect time for the perfect guest.
are going to be speaking with Bob
Brackett, managing director and senior
research analyst covering North American
oil and gas exploration and production
and global metals and mining at
Bernstein Research. So, Bob, thank you
so much for coming back on Odd Lots.
having me, Tracy. When I said we should
do an episode on one commodity at that
time, why did your mind immediately go
to net gas? Was that the big Was that
the big story in your mind?
I am most useful when I am least loved.
commodity analyst is everyone will ask
me about whatever is the highest on the
screen. That's the thing that's going to
mean revert lower. The money has already
been made there and therefore you should
to looking at the things that no one's
really talking about. And so I would
argue, you know, today, Henry Hub, US
natural gas, not the LNG stuff that's
shut in, not other commodities, Henry
Hub is unloved,
of these underlying demand drivers in
the US. So it's the forgotten molecule
today.
spot on when it came to nat gas, cuz I
remember last year you turned bullish
after like 15 years of being bearish,
something like that. So I know you're
too modest to say that you got that call
correct, but directionally things seem
to be going your way.
the energy space, yeah, nigh on 15, 16
years. And for most of that time we've
had these giant disruptions. First we
had shale gas, where the entire oil and
gas complex was drilling and learning
curves of how do you frack gas, how do
you get it out. We drove the cost of
shale gas down up 350 an MCF. And then
shale oil comes along the way and just
hands out, you know, gives away the
associated gas from oil directed
drilling. And so you've had a big chunk
of the cost curve that doesn't really
care what the price of gas is. It's a
byproduct. Wa-ha, gas prices go negative
at time to time, it doesn't slow down
the oil drilling. And then finally
you're starting to see the light where
in the same way that the shale oil
industry became well behaved kind of in
2018, the shale gas industry, and
especially the Haynesville Shale sitting
down there on the border of Louisiana
and Texas, starts to behave itself. And
in a world where you have these really
strong structural demand drivers to the
upside, and you have discipline on the
supply side, that's a nice time to come
into a sector.
One more sort of setup question. I was
sort of thinking about this on the way
in. Like when I think about oil,
you You there's various grades of oil,
and there's various prices, but
basically there's one global price of
oil, and everything trades at a little
bit of a spread to that, depending a
little bit on geography, and depending a
little bit on grade, and light sweet,
and heavy sour, whatever it is. My
impression, and tell me if I'm wrong, is
that with gas, the story is like,
there's one type of gas, but there is
absolutely not one global market,
because the exact flip side of oil, the
supply chain is just so radically
very large crude carrier, holds 2
million barrels of oil.
And oil today is 100 bucks a barrel, I
couldn't have said that 3-4 weeks ago,
and the movement, the cost of moving
that halfway across the world is a few
bucks a barrel. So, for a couple
percent, I can take my product, deliver
it to you wherever you want.
gas out of the Marcellus from 2 miles
down and 2 miles out through the
fractures is less than a dollar.
Then it's a couple bucks to get it to
market, Henry Hub, through pipelines. If
I want to ship it, cost me 2 and 1/2
bucks to liquefy it, another buck and a
half to put it on a vessel, send it
somewhere, and then re-gas it. And so,
80-90% of the cost of gas is in the
movement.
got a law of one price for oil, right?
Because the relative value of the cargo
versus the shipping is trivial. With
gas, it's all a game of distance and
markets, and therefore, there is no one
price.
Iran's place in the sort of, I guess,
gas complex of the world? Because, you
know, we think about it as a commodities
player, but a sort of unreliable
commodities player in some respects. You
never know what's going to get
sanctioned, and nat gas, as we all know,
tends to be kind of volatile in and of
itself. So, what exactly is Iran's role
in this particular complex?
field on the planet and the Qataris call
it North Field and that extends into
Iranian territory where it's kind of
Pars, but you've got something that the
numbers get huge, but you're we think
about a TCF of gas is a huge amount of
gas.
Q-Maxes coming out of Qatar could be 6
BCF, billion cubic feet.
name?
very 4 BCF.
good Marcellus well might produce over
its life 20 BCF.
of LNG.
So, take that times a thousand and
that's the scale of the field of North
Field.
lot of condensate associated and so,
it's a massive money maker.
It sits west of the Strait of Hormuz.
Gulf except Oman is sort of trapped west
of the Strait of Hormuz.
Qatar and Iran, it goes into both?
structure on the planet and it's shared,
geologically it's shared. Operationally
it's absolutely not shared, but yes,
it's
……（中部抽样）……
Qataris have called North Field, comes
Asia.
what's that market?
million and the minute it gets on a
three powerhouses of LNG are Qatar, the
could give away the gas and they sign
doesn't sign long-term contracts. So if
need something to burn to spin a turbine
bring some fuel oil, some diesel, or gas
had oil linked contracts for LNG. So
The US comes along and breaks that and
Liquefy it on the Gulf Coast mostly.
pricing. It's much more of a spot market
"I got force majeure out of Qatar. I
burn coal. I'll burn fuel oil, diesel. I
weird like
when Russia invaded Ukraine.
the levels it did during Russia-Ukraine.
those Russians are terrible. They don't
the market, and then you invade in
northern hemisphere and people don't
And what also helps is, you know, to a
turn when we get toward the summer.
scaled up? You know, today in 2026, how
much capacity is going to come online in
is not selling LNG.
It's loading now. And so in March it
Pass terminal was an import terminal.
It's going to get priced off of the
diesel. And so everyone had their
that'll save my energy bill.
terminal and they just flipped the
speak. It'll start to sell cargoes as
Middle East.
supply. In a situation like this, what's
their sheer willingness and I I guess in
gestational period, and of course these
was the theme that started this year?
written about the approaching LNG glut.
everyone ran out and said, "I need LNG.
facilities once built run full. Right?
To a certain degree we had OPEC with a
cargo would have gotten delivered
Russia's invasion of Ukraine was that
we were?
is about 120 BCF a day. Couple years ago
multiple BCF a day. And so it is the
gas. And there was this concern that
rise of LNG exports meaningfully raised
shoulder season and Henry Hub's $3. It
that that extra 10 going to 20% of the
supply side's been perfectly willing to
that's changed. I think, you know,
from now looks pretty lean. You're
can we do? We can go international,
conventional oil like the the Shah gas
there is this sense that it is a it's
out every year. You know, that chapter
you got to go replace that stuff.
Northeast as something that I have to
must be some marginal source of demand
to watch is bubbling behind the scenes,
What happened when Russia invaded
Europe. Asia was left saying, "Well,
Russia-Ukraine, 300 bucks a ton.
like electricity and air conditioning
place. And then, eventually some demand
aside the Strait of Hormuz, just pure
the medium to long term here?
bring down your LNG facility, and you
you shut in, you come back. And so, in
up, especially when you can plan ahead.
we'll kind of have a
big three LNG, the US, Qatar, and
knocked out.
used to fading Middle East flare-ups
decades of experience in this space.
returning to normal.
one of the one I'll use oil as an
for diesel, for gasoline, etc.
and you stop using it and that's where
show you oil never works a year forward
about 140. So, we're not quite there.
don't need to be a geopolitician. I just
But geology feels sorry. If I think
about it, but geopolitics changes when
that gas that there's not a global
towards a global price of gas?
look west and they'll see what are
kind of they help set a law of one
right, serve two markets. They can look
TTF over here. The Qataris' role in the
were going to kind of link the price of
And then you can compete against that.
is this much, I can do this project,
phasing out Russian imports and then the
this conflict, then Russian LNG will
who are the big buyers of LNG? Right?
of the strategies is diversity of supply
proven absolutely correct. If anyone
hindsight, choice.
pipe-loads of gas now. They've got a
problem with a pipeline uh is it goes
pipe and the person taking stuff out of
of customers with benefits.
tanker that it could on the market, and
What did they do?
as there are liquefaction. And the way
million tons. So, you're spending 10
buyer does the regas. So, you can build
tight, you can have two people fighting
form of source of electricity, and it's
coal and power plants, and that's going
in the grand tradition of us
know we had a segment with Bob where we
them for 5 minutes. So, I'm going to do
for a while, and I remember ADNOC, the
a byproduct of crude oil, like this
sulfuric acid out of it, and sulfuric
sulfur right now is this Shah gas field
field. In the old days, if you ever went
thing, right?
here we have one of the largest sources
right? So, that's that's worrying.
can see if you ever go to Western
generates sulfur cuz you'll take a
copper sulfide. And so, if you ever
make the tower tall enough so that that
lose money. Right, you don't make money
sometimes negative. So, a copper smelter
normally you'll get the precious metals
uplift. I'll pay for 95% conversion and
"Hey, we're getting a revenue stream off
ammonium sulfate, for example, is an
Kazakhstan, the leading producer of
tight sulfuric acid, you might say,
sulfur off of the market.
convert it. So, we'll find a way. So,
things.
like you're not a
particularly the war right now and we
there was a good headline in Bloomberg
one. So, if you went back to when Russia
lot of nickel out of Russia, a lot of
to run out of those things. You know,
process a lot. So, smelters are
electricity to make it
Bahrain, we've got these very large
as a result. Zinc smelters are similar,
global source of cheap energy, and so
Is this not a thing in America? In
into zinc bar tops, but maybe we can,
talking about oil, etc. I'm curious like
manufacturer of a oil country tubular
issues. What has been the effect in
infrastructure?
steel tariffs. We've had this threat of
been left alone.
their budgets this year, it wasn't based
things we heard from the Trump
whether it's coal or gas or whatever.
pro oil price policy. So,
gasoline price. He's extremely sensitive
industry makes money when oil prices are
And that's where marginal producers can
before. We've been bouncing, you know,
shale oil give up very much. And OPEC
oil through most of the Trump
So yeah, there is no policy. So the
Right. So clarity of policy permitting
approved permitted has improved but that
spreads are out there.
that encourages basically every country
make sure you have stuff. Then the trade
……（接近结尾）……
[snorts] a geopolitician convinces you
of that, then there's going to be a lot
of assets invested in the physical
economy.
Tracy's going to love it. Do you watch
Landman?
when I get a chance. So I binge watched
the first season. I have not binge
watched the second.
real
has you know very little
to yeah versus Landman.
portion of my life right now is
listening to Jared talk about Landman.
Anyway.
Bob Brackett, yeah.
coming back on Odd Lots. Always a true a
true pleasure.
Tracy.
always.
thing um with a lot of energy episodes
is that and I've mentioned it, we both
mentioned it, energy math is not
intuitive to me, you know, like I have a
very hard time conceptualizing like what
is a billion cubic feet or whatever. But
it in net gas, especially with all the
conversions that happen between the
liquefaction uh it's like I find it
really
was one of those like toddlers that was
trying to stick like triangle pieces
into round holes. I've always struggled
to sort of visualize shapes and sizes,
so absolutely.
what a tape is.
of stuff that stood out from that
episode. One thing I should just clarify
cuz I don't mean to make light of you
know, I I asked about the Trump
administration being energy-friendly to
domestic US energy producers and Bob was
like, well, the war is very friendly and
I kind of waved it off like it is a huge
giveaway to US energy and you know,
Isabella Weber, another great Odd Lots
guest, had a paper about like where the
value of these higher oil prices
actually flows to and it's all the US
energy companies.
he said that in one of his Truth Social
posts, something like that. He's like,
we're actually going to make more money,
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
consumers.
prices. But he like sort of spun it.
He's like, oh, look, we're going to make
a lot of money because we're a net oil
exporter and energy exporter now between
LNG and crude. So, yes, clearly domestic
energy has benefited, obviously
benefiting, you know, quite a wave that
it's riding because obviously the demand
for LNG after the invasion of Ukraine.
That just that's a very big story.
to the episode we recorded on the impact
of the Strait of Hormuz closure on
China's economy.
And this idea that well, the more
disruptions to commodity supply you have
like this, the more you have governments
sort of worried about choke points
materializing. The more you're going to
see a hastened shift to renewables that
might be
more immune from these types of
disruptions.
said it at the very end that you know,
like when we think of the early 2000s,
you know, the the commodity supercycle
driven by China. But that for the first
several years of China Chinese opening
up, they really benefited from the fact
that there was just a glut of capacity
that the combining of global which I
hadn't really thought about at all that
is like from an economic perspective,
there was a lot of capacity to supply
China with raw commodities, particularly
in the mid-90s, simply due to the fact
that
you know, as he said, apply a little bit
of capitalism to those Soviet assets and
suddenly you have a lot of production
brought online. The '90s were a special
time. Everything was just working out.
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy [music] Alloway.
me at The Stalwart. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Arman - Joe
Bennett at Dashbot and Caleb Brooks at
Caleb Brooks. [music] And for more Odd
Lots content, go to bloomberg.com/odd
lots for a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
of these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
to answer random commodity questions,
then please leave us a positive review
on your favorite podcast platform.
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely [music] ad-free. All
you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcasts and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.