TITLE: The real AI revolution isn’t software. It’s farms, mines, and trucks. | Qasar Younis
CHANNEL: Lenny‘s Podcast
DURATION_S: 5064  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-08T12:30:47+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_rcniEb9bLw
SHA256: a174fc245edf35e84afcc471ef3e335c8a5516a86dae501c8ec697c235e8d46d

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2006] 2006. And you're asking me the same
  [1000] $1,000 off at vanta.com/lenny.
  [30000] United States over 30,000
  [2026] podcast is happening not in 2026, but
  [500000] $500,000
  [1800] sitting, let's say in the late 1800s,
  [80%] 80% of German towns in World War II did
  [100%] released and it's driving 100% of
  [1980] In the 1980s in the 1990s doing the long
  [1990] In the 1980s in the 1990s doing the long
  [100000] more more than 100,000 employees. Like a

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
You decided to join Twitter recently.
Put out your first tweet. Mark
Andreessen quote tweeted it and said
this is the best AI CEO nobody knows our
best work is done alone and quietly.
Every minute you're writing something
for public consumption you're not
focusing your very limited time that you
have on your customers and your product.
You're building a lot of the future that
we're going to be living in. What does
the next couple years look like?
problems like cancer are directly going
to be related to this AI boom. Net
suffering in humanity overall should go
down significantly. A threat that has
emerged on this podcast is that AI is
coming just in time to save us.
10 years really is going to be in
farming, mining, construction. These
industries they need autonomy and it
couldn't come soon enough. If you look
at farmers the average age of a farmer
is in their late 50s. What does that
mean in 10 years from now?
is going to do to the world.
misunderstanding. If you at home are
very anxious about AI the best thing
that you can do is spend time to
understand and you will quickly see the
limitations. Get to know it then
actively make the technology be used for
good.
Today my guest is Kaster Yunis,
co-founder and CEO of Applied Intuition.
You've probably never heard of Kaster or
Applied Intuition. This is the most
important under the radar AI company and
CEO that I've ever come across. It's a
15 billion-dollar company that has been
growing quietly over the last decade.
What they do is they add AI to vehicles
like cars, tractors, planes, submarines,
mining rigs, and a lot more. 18 out of
the top 20 automakers are customers as
well as the biggest global construction,
mining, and trucking companies. Also the
Department of Defense. They're basically
Waymo or Tesla but without the hardware.
Kaster himself was born on a farm in
Pakistan, grew up in Detroit, started
his career as an engineer at GM, and
then at Bosch. He then went on to start
a couple companies before starting
Applied Intuition. I love everything
about this episode and I'm so excited to
bring it to you. Don't forget to check
out Lenny's product fast.com for an
incredible set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. Let's get into it after a
short word from our wonderful sponsors.
This episode is brought to you by Omni.
Many product teams today are in the
process of debating how to ship AI
analytics. The hard part is obvious.
Having an LLM guess at SQL in production
is a huge mess and just a bad idea. Omni
takes a different approach. They have a
semantic layer built in so that when you
embed their analytics, the AI actually
knows your business definitions, not
just your raw tables. You can test
queries, validate the reasoning, and
lock down permissions before anything
hits production. If you want AI
analytics in your product without
building the whole stack from scratch,
check out omni.co/lenny
for a free 3-week trial. Companies like
Perplexity, DBT, and BuzzFeed use Omni
to ship analytics their customers can
trust. That's o m n i dot c o slash
lenny.
My podcast guest tonight love talking
about craft and taste and agency and
product market fit. You know what we
don't love talking about? SOC 2. That's
where Vanta comes in. Vanta helps
companies of all sizes get compliant
fast and stay that way with
industry-leading AI, automation, and
continuous monitoring. Whether you're a
startup tackling your first SOC 2 or ISO
or an enterprise managing vendor risk,
Vanta's trust management platform makes
it quicker, easier, and more scalable.
Vanta also helps you complete security
questionnaires up to five times faster
so that you can win bigger deals sooner.
The result, according to a recent IDC
study, Vanta customers slashed over
$500,000
a year and are three times more
productive. Establishing trust isn't
optional. Vanta makes it automatic. Get
$1,000 off at vanta.com/lenny.
Kaster, thank you so much for being
here. Welcome to the podcast. Thanks for
having me. You're basically building uh
a lot of the future that we're going to
be living in and people may not even
realize this. And then kind of there's
two sides to this. On the one side, let
me ask you this question. If things go
really well,
what does the next couple years look
like for people with the emergence of AI
with physical AI? What are What are
What's a vision of the future? Let me
take the broader AI point and then the
the the micro the more specific one on
physical AI.
Macro, I I think
think about this like the Industrial
Revolution, right? So, if you're
sitting, let's say in the late 1800s,
there's a lot of, you know, we can focus
on a lot of bad things that happened
because of the Industrial Revolution,
right? You have child labor and you have
monopolies emerging and you have abuse
of, you know, your your wars end up
happening.
Uh but there's also it's an almost
almost unimaginable present without the
values and what what without without the
kind of benefits we got out of the
Industrial Revolution, which is
broader access to health care like we've
never seen before. Broader like
access to goods, material goods, things
like we take for granted like heating
and cooling your home. There there's
this uh there there's this great um
YouTube kind of channel that focuses on
POW letters from Germans who are seeing
America in the early '40s and they're
writing letters back to Germany about
what they're seeing as they're
basically, you know, prisoners of war.
And they're kind of blown away that the
towns that they roll by in these trains
as they're going to
their POW camps are all lit up or that
there's cars everywhere.
80% of German towns in World War II did
not have electricity. And that's kind of
a mind-bending kind of thing cuz we just
assume all this stuff all this
technology is, you know, uh equally
distributed. So, the positive version is
these things that we
let's say folks who are
uh wealthy or folks who have access to
technology,
these things everybody has access to.
The the the fact like simply having
somebody who's a coach to you and having
that coach very specifically to you, not
a generic you know, chat GPT that's
giving fairly generic answers. This is a
very powerful thing. I think us solving
some of these impossible problems like
cancer are directly going to be related
to this AI boom. Uh so, I think net
suffering in humanity, I think just like
the Industrial Revolution
overall should go down and should go
down significantly. And I'm a
fundamental optimist in that view that
technology will bring that that that
that the positivity. In physical AI
specifically,
again, you know, when you when you have
things like your
uh you have your own car and you have
the ability you have your limbs and you
have your your senses and you can drive,
you take these kind of things for
granted. You jump in your car and you go
to the store. Uh
for somebody who maybe is disabled or
somebody who doesn't have the money to
afford a vehicle, access to mobility
that's nearly free or is free is a big
deal. And that like simple example of
making self-driving cars free for
everybody and how that would change the
planet,
you live in Rwanda and you are 2 hours
from the nearest hospital, that matters
that in very, very true way. And so, I
think a a lot of let's say the
negativity around AI comes from people
who frankly speaking are living in a
very, very good existence. And when you
live on the other edge of society, yes,
and I'm not like some naive person who
thinks that there's no downsides of
technology. We can discuss that. But I I
I just see there's a a lot more
positive. So, when you ask that
question, what's the next forget 3 to 5
years, what's the next 20 years? These
things that we take for for granted that
are bad
……（中部抽样）……
uh suddenly are not there. Uh and I
Pakistan because the long distance, you
at a near free
the you know, the market's reacting more
know, calm through this period? Those
best thing that you can do is spend time
cup. And so, you realize that you can
beings that are at their own volition
understand the gap of, you know, of a
technology and you start seeing the
damaged by the advent of that
so so I think it's it's up to us to
second part of the question about, you
from very, uh, you know, a
equities funds are extremely nuanced and
work hard. It's not to take take that
And they'll do something like, "Hey, why
It doesn't have all these things. It
immediately prices in that risk.
society and the sell-off are two very
alpha we've been talking about. Time to
love your point about how self-driving
whichever way you slice uh the
world countries today. It's There isn't
and then they jump in into a car." Like
statistic. And we just let the statistic
a huge I have Tesla and the self- I just
it's an it's an it's incredible. And I
on is the fact that people die from
that when you hear the rustle in the
Like no nobody's clamoring to go work in
robots walking around doing things for
automated machine that is taking an
question about mobile. And you say,
think at that time I would say, cuz I
Well, Instagram is very hard to even
I think it can come
that will come early are going to be use
in putting a little bit of intelligence
actually just putting intelligence in
right now is working on a product that's
Tesla version is very few sensors, no
area. So, you fast forward 5 years, both
everybody wanted. We're at that moment
mentally live in that reality that
plug it in." And and there wasn't a big
because you have some intelligence
from just you
impact that's still that's still such a
AI is going to be in this physical
platforms, but it's still segregated to
on this podcast recently is that like
Yeah, I think I think honestly speaking
they're not already retired and 20 years
haul trucking job was what the family
real world is really I think is going to
entire society will be different by that
doesn't happen like, you know, in the
downsides. But the thing that we can't
market way more than anybody else. And
That growth has come from Mountain View,
take the average worker and the average
brakes is just fear of China and
really amazing company
MAGA, and half of the company or a
they make phones, they must be just like
you say OpenAI is competing against the
You cannot treat China like another
this exceptionally interesting product,
those products, and therefore or company
these Chinese EV companies are and look
profits, I think America would field
everybody can succeed in those markets
mean that it's not doesn't warrant our
Like it's like that's not it's not like
simply chatting with AI. Then you can
now is the time to bring it to life. Get
Uh Elad Gil, famed investor, describes
think this counter narrative is really
Hathaway and less like, you know, let's
and think about me. And so if you're,
itself is like a tool and it's and it's
of like
minute you're doing a podcast, every
or or somebody like me is known in the
immigrant. Uh
feel very skeptical of the mainstream
that reconciliation, I think over the
And the pragmatic thing here is whether
the full economic spectrum. You know,
can get behind, which is like the debate
that
right, so
product that could consumers or or
hundreds and and and thousands of
only be your co-founders, it could be
creating a founder class in itself.
that you're really and you're you're a
especially earlier in their founding
almost exclusively focused on multi-time
example of that. I think what's the why
give it your all, and it's also not that
Because,
be having the spotlight on you, you
like, "What the hell we just we're
not correct. So, it's it is one of our
It's it's it's just allows you to maybe
let's say operating principles. And this
things that are the reasons you are
the beginning of the company's history.
company. And so today the values really
is my new favorite company value. Uh
these negative connotations in it, but
you're talking about. Maintenance or
car every 30 seconds and you have to
things and making sure you're doing them
that that system. And I think a lot of
of cars. You know, like like they will
hygienic. And and there's different
itself. We like very much we fall into
zen every week and everyone cleans
towards. And I think like you know, our
cleaning the office. I don't I don't
no shoe policy for that same reason.
make it up frankly speaking.
be humble and learn from everything
like ask that question the most direct
you're just not going to read many. So
not I again it's like the whole cleaning
connection there. And then people like
content. Like there's
if I've ever had like a a mentor you
love and it's very long and very not
say high output management classic Andy
company's reading that which is a new
When a piece of material changes your
the obvious ones that if I really wasn't
cave people to now like living in, you
well-regarded and you know nothing
really know. And then just find the best
you're like No, I just like
as a co-founder of the company and the
like, you know, they're like PE guys or
Silicon Valley. It's an influence
operationalize that. So, imagine you
do that?
philosophy. And I think we we we believe
start a company.
about you know, they're supposed to be
because
they have to feel comfortable
what stands the test of time.
have great talent and they have, you
that that that wall of sound overwhelms
Google wasn't just
wasn't it was But Google was this
maybe had a thousand people. And Google
time, which is you're just going in one
going to be. And actually, that can be
let's maybe fix the course." And then
practice."
it's it's hard to find the middle way
conflicting. I just said "Be humble
looking at under speed is decisiveness.
them as as as as they say. So, you you
takeaway here. Um so, what I actually
the right thing to do. And then it's,
That's an emotional
actually make you optimize they've not
So, I like to have the raw image come
are what creates consciousness
the lack of better word of ideas, facts,
will be will be
other thing I think a lot of founders
……（接近结尾）……
you, leadership doesn't know what's
going on, the industry, you know, your
antiquated tools, all this stuff. Why
that's so important to experience as an
individual is then when you become a
leader,
you're making policies and you're
creating culture and you have to keep
that in mind. And a bunch of founders
who just never had the frankly the
fortune of being at the bottom of the
totem pole.
And uh and that's just one version of
how to you know the that doesn't
obviously seem like you know
uh read read you know
consume the photos of Bresson or you
know Picasso or whoever it might be.
Um but it's something similar. There's
something similar about you you can
sometimes meet founders and maybe maybe
a good heuristic here is like
there's some founders that would be good
at lots and lots of things. Actually not
just being a founder of an AI company in
the Bay Area and there's something about
taste there. Because if you really what
you're talking about is like
understanding humans and understanding
life and then being able to discern
with some judgment
what is good and what's not good. Cuz
that's really what we're talking about.
And uh and so if you if you're if you're
if you're life experience is very
narrow, you you could still be good and
and you might you and and have the
ability to discern what's good and
what's what's what's not good.
But I think like there's something about
like if you've backpacked for a few
years around the world, I somehow
believe that's going to be a better
founder. It's like you know I don't know
how I can there's no peer-reviewed
research that can that I can point to
that that that says that. So I think you
that's what I'm getting at. There there
is some developing of taste. Yeah.
Well, uh
I feel like we have helped people build
their taste, build feed their feed their
model with more insights and different
perspectives in this conversation. I
feel like we could chat for hours, but I
know you got to run. Yeah, I'm not sure
if
there are any real takeaways other than
Okay, zero. We really we really went
everywhere. I'm I'm sorry if you had a
particular line of questions you wanted
to go down. We went in all the perfect
directions. Okay, good. Good. Good.
Kaster, thank you so much for doing
this. Thank you so much for being here.
Um final question, just where can folks
find you online? How can listeners be
useful to you?
Uh that's a great question. I mean I
love to hear what are books that I don't
know.
Um so that's that's always good. I've
I've I've some of my favorite books have
been just randomly kind of recommended
to me. So
I'd I'll I'll take that. Of course um
I consume, you know, research as well.
And so if there's something particularly
novel that's going on, obviously all the
mainstream stuff we as a company and me
as an individual are going to consume,
but things that are a bit off the beaten
path, we're always looking for that.
Uh but yeah, and then if you if you have
a particular opinion about
specifically our domain, physical AI,
and how AI is going to impact
mines, farms, constr- you know,
construction sites,
uh robotecs, all of that stuff. I'm
always interested to hear new new
opinions on that or even old opinions
maybe with a different viewpoint. So
uh yeah, if you if you see me, you can
see me online. Of course, uh I'm always
around as well. I'm always always open
to that feedback. And you're on Twitter
now. There you go. Yeah, exactly. Yeah,
follow me there. So I
yeah, exactly. That that's that's the
answer.
Channelling my inner inner Mark.
for doing this and for being here.
Yeah, thanks for having me. It was a lot
of fun. Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app.
Also, please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review, as that really
helps other listeners find the podcast.
You can find all past episodes or learn
more about the show at
lennyspodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.