TITLE: The art of influence: The single most important skill left that AI can’t replace | Jessica Fain
CHANNEL: Lenny‘s Podcast
DURATION_S: 5613  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-22T12:30:37+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RP4vJeIb7WU
SHA256: ac5c0dbac0f6b45c2ee67a99e135d9b70df580168dcb7e5e8040f276a1fc1678

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2701] ISO 2701 or an enterprise managing
  [500000] customers slashed over $500,000
  [1000] $1,000 off at bant.com/lenny.
  [100%] coding and now it's 100% of code will be
  [1600] the 1600s, 1700s, there are two wives
  [1700] the 1600s, 1700s, there are two wives

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
As product managers, one of our best
sets of skills is curiosity and empathy
and trying to understand our users. But
the moment that we're talking to an
executive, we forget those skills and
those talents.
buy into your ideas.
executives make decisions. What is going
on in the heads? I describe an
executive's calendar as a strobe light
going off. You wake up at 8:00 a.m.,
you've already got a huge list of urgent
things going on. They have not had the
time, the energy, the wherewithal to
center your problems.
trying to do? How are they measured?
Connect the thing you're pitching them
with that success.
interesting questions of our executives.
Tell me what the board is pushing you
on. Execs want to be successful, too.
They want to be good at their jobs.
they just don't bite.
build trust is kill things. Dep
Prioritize things. If you're thinking
about how do you be more senior, how do
you show up in a way that is in a
leadership mindset, you get paid to be a
domain expert, your executive is looking
for you to be the deepest person in the
room. Bringing your expertise to bear is
absolutely crucial. You have to act like
a CPO.
Today my guest is Jessica Feain who's
been a product leader at Box and Slack
and Brightitewheel and now at Webflow
and she has gotten very very uniquely
good at the art and science of influence
and in particular influencing
executives. Influence might be the
single highest leveraged skill for
product leaders outside of AI. We
actually get into how AI is changing the
skill of influence. I've never heard a
podcast conversation get deep into the
art and science of influence, how to
actually change people's minds and the
mistakes that people make when they're
trying to influence leaders. We get very
tactical and very specific. There's a
bunch of stuff in this conversation that
I've never heard before or thought
about. I am very excited for you to
learn from Jessica. Before we get into
it, don't forget to check out
lennisproduct.com
for an incredible set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. Now, let's get into it.
after a short word from our wonderful
sponsors. This episode is brought to you
by Omni. Many product teams today are in
the process of debating how to ship AI
analytics. The hard part is obvious.
Having an LLM guest add SQL in
production is a huge mess and just a bad
idea. Omni takes a different approach.
They have a semantic layer built in so
that when you embed their analytics, the
AI actually knows your business
definitions, not just your raw tables.
You can test queries, validate the
reasoning, and lock down permissions
before anything hits production. If you
want AI analytics in your product
without building the whole stack from
scratch, check out omni.co/lenny
for a free 3we trial. Companies like
Perplexity, DBT, and Buzzfeed use Omni
to ship analytics their customers can
trust. That's omni.co/lenny.
This episode is brought to you by
Lovable. Not only are they the fastest
growing company in history, I use it
regularly and I could not recommend it
more highly. If you've ever had an idea
for an app, but didn't know where to
start, Lovable is for you. Lovable lets
you build working apps and websites by
simply chatting with AI. Then you can
customize it, add automations, and
deploy it to a live domain. It's perfect
for marketers spinning up tools, product
managers prototyping new ideas, and
founders launching their next business.
Unlike no code tools, Lovable isn't
about static pages. It builds full apps
with real functionality, and it's fast.
What used to take weeks, months, or
years, you can now do over a weekend.
So, if you've been sitting on an idea,
now is the time to bring it to life. Get
started for free at lovable.dev.
That's lovable.dev.
here. Welcome to the podcast.
Let's set this conversation up. We're
going to be talking about the skill and
the art of influence and in particular
uh influencing executives and leaders,
people above you that you want to
convince to do things you want them to
do. Help us understand why this is worth
people's time. Why is this worth the
next hour of someone listening to this?
Why is this skill so important to
people's careers? I think as product
builders, there's almost not a skill
that's more important. Influence and
building a momentum behind great ideas
is the way that great products actually
get built. And if you don't have that
influence, if you don't have the buyin
and the backing of your key
stakeholders, of your executives, you
can't build great products.
is just like I I was in a period of like
I don't need to work on this skill. I'm
just like, I'm just going to do amazing
work. I'm just going to it's going to
show itself. Everyone's going to
recognize it. And you just everyone run
into this wall of like, oh man, all
these other people are getting promoted.
Maybe talk about that because it feels
like that's a big trap. People run into
you.
about this is, you know, when I was an
ICPM, I was putting forth ideas. I was
trying to reflect what I was hearing
from my customers. I was trying to get
sort of buyin and excitement about the
work that I thought was really going to
move us forward. And at the time that
I'm thinking about, I was a PM at Slack.
And some of my ideas got people really
excited, you know, got me funding and
backing and just really a sense that we
could accomplish something great. And
some of my ideas and the things that I
really really believed in died on the
vine. They went nowhere. And I was so
confused and frustrated honestly because
I felt like, hey, I really get this user
base. I really understand what's going
to move the ball forward. And I don't
understand how these decisions are
actually being made behind the scenes.
And uh I was uh eight months pregnant,
eight and a half months pregnant. April
Underwood, who had just been named CPO
of Slack, um she had just come back from
maternity leave. We had a two-day
overlap. And I sort of got up my courage
and I said to her, "April, I've admired
you for a long time. I love the way you
work. I I really love the way you think.
Um, and I really want to understand it
better. If you'd ever consider having a
chief of staff, I'd love for you to
consider me. And when I came back from
that maternity leave, I came into a
stint as April's chief of staff and was
later chief of staff to Tamario Hoshua.
Um, who succeeded succeeded April,
now a CPO and head of AI at Atlassian.
Tamar, don't um be mad if I mess up your
title. And what I learned through that
process is that people completely
misunderstand how executives make
decisions, what is going on in the
heads, in the calendars, in the
incentive structures of executives. And
instead of really understanding where
that exec or stakeholder is coming from,
they center themselves. They center
their own desires, their own
motivations, their own slice of the
world, and they end up just not being as
successful both in their career, but
also in the types of products that
they're building.
about people don't understand how
product leaders actually make decisions,
how they decide what to do, what to
listen to. What's an example?
of this is people don't understand
executive calendars, right? A lot of
times on Google calendar, it's blocked.
you can't see what they're working on.
But I describe an executive's calendar
as like a strobe light going off. You
know, you wake up at 8 a.m., you've
already got a huge list of urgent things
going on. You go from a meeting with
finance on a budget to an interview for
another executive to a people problem to
……（中部抽样）……
a legal problem to a product review. And
center your problems. and you have to
you? Why is this meaningful? and really
the ways that I phrase this is how do
language like love languages, right? But
breath at the beginning of the meeting
at Calendarly and Glass Door and now at
a stakeholder, we forget those skills
user here, then we can have a much much
like you better because they will feel
respect them, if you think they have
by this topic in terms of it may feel
own gain. Influence is about increasing
low ego way, um I'll give an example
of craft perspective. And we started
hand or I'm going to show off that I
of the sort of early Slack folks and the
of these people on the podcast. What a
is that they have to be a yes man. They
know, Elon Frank who was who was my boss
that curiosity and empathy. If you hear
that I think is dumb, but there must be
belief? I think one thing that really
and then respond with your own domain
lines? Say you're pitching your product
team to say, "What do you think is most
most important to her?" A colleague of
in the past that my data is a little
having these conversations to align on
and say what do you think on this topic
busy their calendars are, but they're
here to convince you. I'm here to just
trying to show too much work trying to
They don't need to know every single
packaging strategy uh give three options
was the sort of problem and strategic
that we can really get building on this
okay. I see why the solution that you're
file, whatever it is. Um, we uh we we
gave us a a forum for conversation to
be ready for more options. Have you have
recommendation it's flip it start with
format, storytelling, pre-work that is
you like and don't like. And so just
are also human and you're trying to give
else? So, there's like just understand
there's this idea of simulate almost
understand the day-to-day lives of our
on because everyone's got a boss and uh
incentives that you're working on
there together. So I think that one of
question. top of mind has become this
back to this incentives piece such a
making your business successful because
strategic insights and what they believe
our users. That was one of the things
engineering, stop what you're doing. As
you could call this a bug bash. You
and how we were going to show up in the
grammar on that sentence works, but what
break into some new category? Of course,
how do I understand that and deeply
theory of change. Uh there are many
that you are proposing to actually shift
feel comfortable. You want them to feel
the asks are more subtle. I wonder if
hey Kev our head of design we're going
the organization's incentives are to
um, we were in a strategy review, you
underneath. There's really an important
influence is you take the reigns and
missteps here is, you know, people treat
them if you keep the ball rolling in a
have fun every single thing.
in why they believe that, what they
that we're working on now? And they'll
brain is spinning with ideas.
what the heck. What would you recommend
think the other really important thing I
that.
comments and you're like, "Oh my gosh,
discussion with that group. And the
we can talk about uh the the the really
ISO 2701 or an enterprise managing
$1,000 off at bant.com/lenny.
work. Why am I spending all this time
So, it's not my fault.
that that honors that investment in you
the way to build well. You know, when
stamp like influenced uh at the end.
of hey with today's resourcing with this
possible, tell them why not. Come back
successful, especially when the ask from
here.
actually more aligned and so I think
way of approaching all these things.
smaller organization, if that big idea
actually matters. If you have something
cross functional stakeholders to be
reason that a leader doesn't buy into
trying to extract some of his ideas, but
great tool for marrying that leader's
question you had? Uh oh that's so
um ability to speak freely, to ask
exactly where I was going to actually go
successful you've been your whole life
that they already hold. Follow those
are really hearing them out and
scarier one. I think the other thing I
can get people over the hump of well I'm
the tools that we have at our disposal.
on something that's going to take two
for you in in this experiment? You know,
beautiful. I would have never been able
outcome, the user outcome, and not just
So, sometimes we don't know the a lot of
uh one trick that I learned, especially
and risks around a given initiative or
other product teams are working on
actually apply to strengthen your
coming into it with like here's what I
what information they have access to.
point to think about it in the context
our chief of staff that I I wanted to
as that strategic leader that you say
this to me is Jeff Weinstein, I think is
and able to to really put himself in
technology, storytelling, and and of
even if that's true that shipping is the
business, do you need to change course?
this product.
leaders, we will bring those
product managers, but of product
more important.
in the business and if AI is better than
version to bear to get that momentum to
in this new world.
And I think the best product thinkers
software actually matters, what software
determining if this is good and ready
build the next Salesforce on their own,
dominance in that market because of
function of influence and empathy. Along
just find codeex and clock code are so
going through a strategy doc rewrite. I
the most important problems to invest
of talk on Twitter actually just today
or software is dead is like really dumb.
clouds running, codeexes, all kinds of
the um, places where agents fall down. I
take the time to say what's important to
that history, that context, they will be
Here's context on my goals. Here's what
using agents and AI as um a really smart
mind and learn it's like exactly what an
we were evolved uh I I love this book um
are asking of our brains right now is
Oh my god. Uh before we get to our very
the achiever. Um that is my personality
uh super data oriented and technical. I
some good nuggets in there, but I think
can through your own strengths. You
know. You know, they uh I can't remember
Japan. Uh, there's a book called
into um a different world.
……（接近结尾）……
they're just the nicest people. So, I'm
really excited to see them see them
thrive.
their domain name, getcasa.com. And I
think they're only in the Bay Area right
now, and I think they're expanding into
LA right now.
website is very bare. I don't even know
how you sign up,
guess you could figure it out, but uh I
I love Costa. Uh yeah, they also do like
a filter rotation thing. So like every
six months they come and replace all
your filters or air purifiers and
whatever. You can set you can set like
maintenance for your dishwasher, for
your air filters, for your uh washer
dryer, which has been super cool to see.
Um they also you get handyman credits
every month. So all the things that you
put off do doing uh they can come in and
and do it themselves and it's it's just
wonderful.
you have a favorite life motto that you
often come back to in work or in life?
was like, "What's my life motto?" Um,
and he had such a nice answer that I I
thought I'd go with it. Uh, we have this
saying with our kids, first the guests.
Um, so if you have guests over, which we
love to host people in our house, um,
our rule with our three kids is guests
always go first. And I think that um,
it's really something that we think
about in terms of being of service to
others, being respectful to others,
being welcoming, being kind. Um, and I
think that that has dictated a lot of
who I am as a person and and how we're
trying to be as a family. When you are
of service to others, when you are
inclusive, um, when you can put them
first ahead of yourself, I think it
actually brings a lot of joy to you. Um,
and it certainly makes the world a
little bit better.
be a host.
but such a broadly uh, useful lens,
you want a village, be a villager.
community, reaching out, being there for
other people, and really taking that
first step, even if it's scary or
overwhelming, um can really can really
make a difference.
posters behind you if people are
watching on YouTube. Is there one that's
like a favorite? Is there one that has a
story per chance?
these are all my husband's posters. He
is a musician. He loves guitar. Uh, so
he picked them all, but I think that I
have to say my favorite one is probably,
uh, Jimmyi Hendris plays the Greek. Uh,
so we live in Berkeley and uh, you
can't, it's just slightly off camera,
but it's just a great memory of sort of
an incredible musician. Um, and the
iconic place that that we're lucky
enough to live in and sort of the great
access to culture that we have here, but
also just how important music is to our
lives, how much
people don't know, it's just like this
outdoor amphitheater with grass. You can
get blankets.
fun spot. Right. right on UC Berkeley's
campus. Um, and they've got great music
and we're really lucky to live close by.
much for being here. Two final
questions. Where can folks find you
online if they want to reach out at,
maybe follow up on anything here? And
how can listeners be useful to you?
you know, funny for being on this
podcast. So, I think the main place I am
online is on LinkedIn. Um, and so you
could definitely find me there. Um, in
terms of being useful uh to me, I would
love to hear what resonated for you,
what's worked for you in the past, how
you're seeing these things show up in
your work, um, and how I can get better
at, um, you know, uplifting the tech
community. And as we go through this
period of tremendous change, uh, how I
can show up, uh, as a leader and as a a
source of community for for this group
of folks.
Nothing.
about AI.
you so much for being here.
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.