TITLE: White Identity Is Galvanizing the Right  | Interesting Times with Ross Douthat
CHANNEL: Interesting Times with Ross Douthat
DURATION_S: 3771  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-19T14:00:00+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X6GMBiIJnxQ
SHA256: 9f660cd11239136be5b571c2116c9cb88003be05c0b495ceeb5a4c8f1116a19d

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1950] present, but in the world of 1950s
  [1960] So, start with the 1960s and 1970s.
  [2024] In 2024, you wrote a book called The
  [1971] quickly. In 1971, I believe, you have
  [2%] maybe 10 and 1/2% African-American.
  [1970] So, start with the 1960s and 1970s.
  [1964] the debate over the 1964 Act,
  [2013] 2013 to 2014 right where we get into a
  [2014] 2013 to 2014 right where we get into a
  [90%] background, but they've gotten like 90%
  [1965] Hart-Celler Immigration Act of 1965,
  [85.5] 85.5, I think, percent um white. We're
  [80%] Hispanics, 80% of them were US-born.
  [57%] a point where we're, you know, 57% white
  [13%] non-Hispanic and 12 or 13%
  [1848] revolutions of 1848 that we begin to get
  [1972] was born in 1972.
  [2023] look at the 2023 Supreme Court case that
  [1954] in 1954, okay?
  [1930] in 1930s rural Mississippi than I would
  [2050] &gt;&gt; Last last question then. It is the 2050s
  [2070] or the 2070s or something, you know,

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Can you can you offer a similar
explanation for why you would use a term
like cultural genocide? Just Just cuz
that's [music] again a phrase that's
associated with some pretty far-right
perspectives on the world. I'm thrilled
that you asked this because I've used it
twice.
you're you're you're okay that
been.
Is there an [music] epidemic of
anti-white discrimination in America?
discrimination?
male.
politics, the left
anchor on how the Democratic Party
functions.
have is your pronoun.
Harris. or the right? Things were a lot
better back [music] when white men were
not being discriminated against.
denigrated.
obliterated.
that white Americans are in danger
citizens.
of addressing this. This is an idea with
a lot of currency on the contemporary
right, but it became the source of a lot
of controversy [music] when the Trump
administration nominated him for a State
Department job.
more discrimination,
um, at least prior to the Trump
administration fixing this, than black
Americans. On average, Senator, yes,
that's correct, and I'm not running away
from that statement at all.
Jeremy Carl, welcome to Interesting
Times. Thanks so much for having me,
Ross.
you are a senior fellow at the Claremont
Institute, which is a well-known,
especially in the Trump era,
conservative think tank. Uh, your
background, right, is in environmental
policy and energy? Yeah, that's right. I
mean, my formal background is in nothing
to do with any of the things for which
I'm best known now, but I I went and did
many years of graduate study and have
written books and articles on
environment and energy policy and served
in the Department of Interior in Trump
one. Right. And then after Trump won,
you did a kind of career pivot where you
became a guy who writes about anti-white
discrimination, multiculturalism,
immigration.
These are ideas that have a lot of
currency on the right and they've become
the focus of controversy around your
nomination to be Assistant Secretary of
State for International Organization
Affairs. Did I get that right?
mouthful. Talk about the job that you
were nominated for. What would you be
doing?
it's a job that oversees basically
everything that we're doing at the
United Nations, but also
has a supervisory role at things like
the G7, the G20, the World Bank, other
sorts of major international
organizations that we're a part of. It
really hearkens back a little bit more
frankly to an earlier portion of my
career. I spent almost a decade as the
right-hand man for the late Secretary of
State George Shultz and did a lot of
work in this field there. It was one of
the reasons why when the State
Department came to me and approached me
that I was interested. Obviously, on
issues like migration or other things,
it does touch on some of the things that
we're talking about here, but I think
one of the the sad things about the way
my hearing was conducted was that I got
almost nothing substantive about like,
how would you do this job? Of which I
had all sorts of answers and really it
just kind of became a big, you know,
gotcha about some tweet
that I'd done and that's just you know,
it's an unfortunately sad reality of our
current politics. So, you're up for that
nomination as we have this conversation.
Yeah. Um you've received criticism and
skepticism from some Republicans as well
as from Democrats. Possibly by the time
this airs, we will know the fate of your
nomination, but we're going to talk
about the arguments that have been the
source of controversy.
In 2024, you wrote a book called The
Unprotected Class, which is about
discrimination against white Americans.
So, tell me
in broad terms, the argument of the
book. Yeah, so the title of the book
comes from the notion in civil rights
law that you have protected classes, and
those are basically classes uh of people
that you can't discriminate against, and
that can have to do with disability, it
can have to do with race, it can have to
do with gender identity, etc. Um
in theory, whites actually are a
protected class, and you're beginning to
see under the great leadership of
Harmeet Dhillon, a friend of mine, at
the Department of Civil Rights right
now, that we're actually maybe finally
seeing that, but historically,
functionally, it hasn't been that way.
And so, the argument of the book,
essentially, is I basically look at what
I think is the rise of anti-white
discrimination and racism in the United
States. I look at everything from the
way that we talk about crime to how we
look at the entertainment sort of more
informally, to how we educate people,
the health care system, and really
document in each chapter by subject
where I think this is going on, why I
think it's important, and what we should
do about it. So, let's start with the
most concrete elements of the argument.
Let's talk about the law. Sure.
last 50 or 60 years Sure. that you think
have enabled anti-white discrimination.
So, start with the 1960s and 1970s.
Yeah, well, and I think this is I'm glad
that you've raised this because it's an
important um
kind of departure point, and I'm
actually slightly to the left of people
who are more interested in really taking
a hatchet to civil rights law in some
cases than I am. I mean, yes, there are
some significant reforms we need to do
in civil rights laws, even some
fundamental reforms, but that actually
what we need to do is utilize civil
rights law and apply it equally. So, if
you look at the Civil Rights Act,
obviously that's the beginning, but I
think it goes off the rails pretty
quickly. In 1971, I believe, you have
Griggs versus Duke Power, which is an
important case that kind of creates a
doctrine called disparate impact. And
you know, to not have the lawyers shoot
me, I'm just going to say I'm
oversimplifying it dramatically here for
the purposes of this discussion, but
basically what disparate impact does is
if you sort of have a reference
population applying for something,
whether it's housing or a job or
something else, and then the population
you select ends up looking very
different than that reference
population, you have to go prove a bunch
of things to basically show that you
didn't discriminate and that it didn't
have a disparate impact on that group.
And that has been a metaphorical sword
of Damocles over all sorts of things.
And the interesting thing about it is if
you go back in the civil rights law and
the debate over the 1964 Act,
there's a concern by some of the people
who are skeptical about the Act that
something like this could happen. But in
1971, just a few years later, the
Supreme Court in fact effectively
enshrines that in the law. So, just
just to make this as clear as possible,
the Civil Rights Act says you're not
allowed to discriminate on the basis of
race. And obviously that applies to
discrimination against a qualified
African-American
applies to whites as well.
Then disparate impact means that what?
Companies find themselves so focused on
making sure that they aren't guilty of
discriminating against black people or
my racial minorities generally that they
can't help discriminating against
qualified white applicants?
that Yeah, I mean, let me get into the
specifics of the case a little bit. So,
the particular case was um
the Duke Power, which was a a southern
uh power company in in North Carolina,
had
put some tests that they considered to
be relevant, genuinely relevant, uh to
um determine who is going to advance in
uh jobs. And there was no intent alleged
racially discriminatory intent of those
tests whatsoever. But you wound up with
a disproportionately white group of
people who passed the test. And what the
Supreme Court effectively says in Griggs
versus Duke Power is even if there is no
intent to discriminate,
you are uh on the wrong side of the law
……（中部抽样）……
by doing that. Right. So, this is one
programs that are sort of explicitly
of come together and I do think that
you know, white competitors are being
applicants there too.
was not past discrimination against
understand a little more about your view
brutal oppression and it's unfair to
which was where you got college
probably be a little more aggressive on
not necessarily that disadvantaged, but
like I mean, honestly, it's just a way
who's come over it, but I don't think
that too much, right? So,
going to favor this race here, we're
that point was very much, you know, you
a core background dynamic. That changes
especially don't have a sense of just
85.5, I think, percent um white. We're
group, for the most part. We are now at
Who are now very, very major parts of
is discrimination against white people?
just I mean, it's a nature I have,
know, the the reality is you have a more
of things right now being exploited with
you actually have to open this up to
immigration changes things?
was a kind of mainstream American
then all of a sudden you have a
alienation, right? That it creates a
addressing the less formal elements of
quite explicitly, that diversity is our
my Yankee ancestors, right, in the early
reason? Well, I think there's two things
the obvious visual differences in many
Like Or people they like if I'm from
demographic changes in Canada, that may
Democracy in America by Tocqueville,
we've never been a quote unquote nation
accurate story.
just disagree with you. I think if you
today. I'm just I'm just not sure that
works, nor do I think that, "Oh my gosh,
lost so much cultural confidence since
very patriotic, sort of uh
on the left and in correct establishment
affirmative action and civil rights law
show is intentional, Jeremy.
going to walk in and give them very
that, I mean, again, if if a Hispanic
the real important reasons to get rid of
anti-white discrimination in the last 10
some attention and I just all of a
elsewhere that are specific to the last
right? Yeah. And for somebody like me,
know, I wasn't a beneficiary of
20-somethings who are some of the
my next book, have become far more
means in in America. I have some
Right. than past Republican
Do those changes sort of solve the
often had to work with frankly, a
made this illegal,
white Americans than other groups. This
a
have a couple years of admissions data.
but there is variation school to school
flat and black and Latino admissions go
applicants. Is that Is that your view?
it that way. It's sort of it's more
sort of folded in. So it's it's
that you know if you know, if you end up
kind of disparate impact analysis
immediate past and they're on the record
advantage BIPOC, you know, whatever,
have intent, if you can show that there
five white guys out of 10 Right.
guys in the writers' room.
that I had written because they didn't
In the last few years, there's all sorts
how does your side of the argument win?
again through Republican
and then he was one of the the endorsers
Ngram data yet cuz it's not updated, but
And I I feel like I've heard this I've
actually ended up winning.
happen probably till the late 60s. And
so right now that's kind of the face of
going to be painful for them not to
point in your career as a white on
I mean this is one of the toxic things,
particular minority who at least on
white guys who were better than you.
that's, you know, you mentioned the sort
has America become racist against white
kind of whiteness, not a phrase I love,
left-wing term, to um movies like uh
is it there? I I do think that
like, if you go watch Gone with the
mean, I just explicitly said I I don't
the demographics of people in every
off being the white fighter pilot here,
that is actually like overtly oppressive
whites become a another minority in
it's going to be a disaster. We've got
uh who benefit from, you know, creating
would they have preferred that you take
in the White House in the State
I don't think they [clears throat]
He's not afraid to say go into a
were, I think I would have been working
already from some of my questions, but I
some defensible, some less so, there was
thumb on the scale became much more
conservatives should talk about it the
start with the question of scale and
like cultural genocide.
A cultural genocide.
way I've always just deleted my tweets
on trial for the assault of a white man
knowledge lynched in that context no one
just my bads, right? They were idiocies.
using Jim Crow
like cultural genocide? Just just cuz
because it's it's great because I can
troll the libs, right? And in fact, I
And I'm suggesting this partially again
talk about this in my my
cultural symbols. Sort of goes on up and
know, like think about this just a
about our trajectory.
politics in the age of Trump. Yeah.
just this kind of extreme
replacement, they don't mean like what
right. the last thing, not evil elites,
said we'll see if it works out for them,
one, I think that that is understandable
now. Right? One, two,
shouldn't shouldn't there be a little
you, you got a million other things to
a tone on social media. But the tone on
speaking. Yeah, I mean
getting into each individual utterance,
They're they're pretty important,
Um
these people who were very radicalized
law and, from my view, and do other
that Trump has actually really been
what I would consider a serious position
listeners will disagree with where I'm
I definitely agree with you that Trump's
job.
is this is this is the future.
bad case is not South Africa. No, we are
is
were asked about in your hearing, as
productive in thinking about your own
In fact, the only good thing that came
against? It's not a term that I prefer.
um
cannot use it as an excuse, because
your own life and making your own life
I've said it a hundred times. I'll say
and be victimized by that. Let's try to
think is going to do that, but I'm not I
But isn't there then
more radicalized on racial issues. You
Like, you know, I again, I'm from New
one of the whitest states in the union.
culture, isn't that white culture?
the best term.
reflected, I think, yeah, a real sort of
mean, again, my The book I'm working on
looking at white liberals
kind of truce on a lot of these issues.
if a big part of like what whiteness in
there's a version of Jeremy Carl, right?
……（接近结尾）……
inherently messy. And I should mention,
I mean, of the young people, certainly
like young white men have been huge fans
of the book, but I've had tons of young
minority folks come up to me and say,
"Yes, we see the same thing. It's a
problem,
um and you know, we're glad that you're
speaking up about it." So, I actually do
think this is very optimistic element,
right? I do think that at the same time,
like it is I absolutely do have sympathy
to um this notion that we're changing
too quickly. I've called for a net zero
immigration. I'm not running away from
that or apologizing for it. I think we
need a long pause to reconstitute um
what this country is, what our new
identity is going to be. The Democrats
are obviously totally opposed to that in
every way. And you know, we have a just
a fundamental impasse. But I absolutely
think that we need to have
ultimately, if if we're going to
succeed, a multiethnic coalition around
American identity.
Um and and that's just that's going to
have to happen.
Is Is okay if that
if the deal that is offered to white
people by that coalition is to say,
"Number one, we are going to reduce the
burden of legal discrimination that you
favor, but number two,
you need to not throw around terms like
heritage American and be a little more
chill about the realities of ethnic
diversity that aren't going away?" I I
think some element of that is going to
have to be the truth that we're going to
work out. Hopefully, I mean, but to do
that we have to beat the left's version.
Because I think the left's version is
just incompatible with a peaceful
civilization. I mean, it's not
it's just an empirical judgment on my
part. I'm not making a moral judgment. I
just don't think that what the left
wants to do is going to lead to anything
other than um incredible amounts of
racial strife and anger and societal um
uh dislocation, right? So, I just what
I'm hoping is
a group of us beat that vision, and then
we're going to have to negotiate exactly
along the lines of
what you're saying. And I certainly do
tell, especially uh some younger people
who I see getting a little bit out of
line, I'll say like, you know, Here and
here and there. Yeah. Here and there,
I'll say like, they don't always listen.
Um
but uh I say, you know, this is not
a productive way to talk about these
issues either publicly or privately. Um
and I think that it's it is going to be
that negotiation, but I think the good
news is like
that's what's going to win. I mean,
either the country is going to lose as a
whole or some version of what you're
just talking about is going to win. Uh
cuz it's the we're not we're not going
back to the 1950s.
We're going to have to reconstitute.
There's a ton of patriotic people I know
of every possible ethnic background who
want to make that happen. And that's
going to be, I hope, the negotiation for
our future polity, what it's going to
look like.
or the 2070s or something, you know,
some future point where we have kind of
achieved
a greater consensus than we have now. We
have a kind of restored sense of
American identity that's different from
the 1950s, but has commonalities.
What does that look like? Cuz we've
talked a lot about
American [snorts] identity as distinct
from white identity or racial identity.
What What are just like the four
pillars, the non-negotiables of
American-ness that you would want to see
endure? So, I I think freedom, but
within a sense of community. I mean, not
not sort of being out there as a
libertine all by yourself, but but but
kind of the the combination of those two
things. I think America's directness has
always been a great um boon. I would
love to see a religious sense return
much more to the mainstream of American
culture. I think that that's incredibly
important. Um and I think just a sense
of of patriotism. I think that the
American experiment is an incredible,
unique experiment. I am not just a
critical American, but I think that
what we've accomplished here is
incredibly unique. And we should be
proud of that. I want every American to
be proud of that. I want us to preserve
it. All right. Jeremy Carl, thank you
for joining me. Thanks so much, Ross.
It's a pleasure to talk to you.