TITLE: He's negotiated $1B+ in executive compensation. Here's his playbook. | Jacob Warwick
CHANNEL: Lenny‘s Podcast
DURATION_S: 6894  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-15T12:31:07+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pEis2CBomVA
SHA256: 463c15000a0e85558a0998ed803641a78b4fcaf74c9862a94a71676867170332

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [20%] always see a 20% improvement on that.
  [300000] loved by over 300,000 entrepreneurs,
  [30%] simple ask. And even that, 20 30%. So
  [350000] they were paid $350,000 base salary,
  [1.1] deal landed at 1.1 million when we were
  [1.2] 600 that landed at 1.1 and 1.2. So,
  [40%] about 40% movement on an increase. We
  [700000] we had a writer who had a $700,000
  [1.3] say, "We want 1.3."
  [10%] got 10% of that. But we didn't find the
  [340000] she gets offered $340,000 base salary,
  [2.4] had two offers that were both 2.4
  [800000] she was offered an $800,000 contract
  [10000] struggling to maybe ask for 10,000
  [100000] gave you a $100,000 offer, 120 could be
  [400%] have seen as much as 100, 200, 300, 400%
  [2021] we talk about what it was like in 2021
  [1.5] said 1.5, would the deal have come in at
  [1.7] If the attorney said 1.7, would it have
  [110000] 110,000 at the time. So when a recruiter
  [120000] $120,000 a year in a single month a
  [70000] for 70,000. And 6 months later I landed
  [70%] situation, werewolves win 60 70% of the
  [187.5] 6 months of base salary is like 187.5,
  [6000] to have a 6,000 lb vehicle. So it there
  [84%] negotiate for 84% because that's what
  [80%] get 80% out there'?"
  [20000] asking for $20,000 more, right? Which
  [75%] 75% more than those who just try to be
  [150000] was hoping for 150,000 more. Sometimes

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
What's the most common mistake that
people make when they're negotiating
their comp?
communication channel possible. I might
email you my demands. The problem with
that is I can't control tone. If I push
back and the CEO that reads it's in the
airport security line and pissed off and
they read it, they might be like, "That
bastard wants more money."
just afraid to ask for more. I'm going
to come across as greedy. It's all going
to fall apart. But when you look at the
money that the company's making in
comparison, like you're not being
greedy. It doesn't have to be
simplest advice "What's the chance there
could be a little more?"
very clear to the company here's the
pain I will solve for you and here's why
it's worth paying you this much more.
leverage over you. They know what people
make, they know what others make, they
know what they'll accept. You have to
understand what value you can create and
if you understand that value, you can
have that conversation with confidence.
is a professional negotiator. He works
behind the scenes with his clients,
mostly senior tech execs, professional
athletes, and Hollywood celebrities. And
he helps them navigate their most
complex career negotiations,
investments, also M&amp;A and takeovers and
enterprise sales deals and more. He's
helped his clients secure over $1
billion in additional comp. And he's
told me that he's negotiated against a
number of guests on this [music]
podcast. He is very much under the
radar, is not on social media, rarely
does interviews, and in this exclusive
conversation, we get super deep on the
specific [music] tactics and psychology
of comp negotiation, including why you
should never negotiate over email, who
should speak first when the question of
comp comes up, the most common and
costly mistakes that people unknowingly
make when they're negotiating comp, and
so much more. Jacob is also just a truly
stellar human and I'm very excited to be
sharing his story. Don't forget to check
out Lenny's product-pass.com for an
incredible set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. Let's get into it after a
short word from our wonderful sponsors.
This episode is brought to you by Orkes,
the company behind open-source
Conductor, the orchestration platform
powering modern enterprise applications.
Modern systems are built on
microservices, APIs, and event-driven
architectures, but legacy automation
tools can't [music] keep up. Siloed
low-code platforms, outdated process
management, and disconnected API tooling
break down under real-world scale and
constant change. Orkes Conductor [music]
provides a production-grade
orchestration layer for coordinating
microservices, APIs, data pipelines,
human tasks, and agentic [music]
workflows with deterministic control
flow, retries, observability, and
governance. Built for enterprise scale,
Orkes supports visual and code-first
development [music] with built-in
compliance and reliability. Through a
built-in MCP gateway, AI agents handle
reasoning and decision-making while
safely accessing existing APIs [music]
and internal systems as MCP tools. This
enables agents to operate across
enterprise environments and scale from
demos to production, orchestrating
systems, agents, and humans together to
deliver smarter outcomes faster. Learn
more at orkes.io/lenny.
That's orkes.io/lenny.
This episode is brought to you by
Mercury, radically different banking
loved by over 300,000 entrepreneurs,
including me. I switched to Mercury from
Chase over a year ago, and it is such a
profoundly better experience. It's like
an [music] actual product person built a
bank versus a banking person building a
product. It is fast, it's elegant, it is
super easy to set wires, to track my
spending, [music] to set up triggers, to
move money around when accounts get low.
We moved all of our invoicing to
Mercury, and it is such a smoother
experience than anything else we've
tried. It's also really easy to grant
people on your team just the right
work off your plate. It's free to get
started. No in-person visits, no minimum
balances. [music] The product also
flexes to all sizes of company, from
startups to large enterprises. Just
visit mercury.com to learn more and
apply online in minutes. Mercury is a
fintech company, not an FDIC insured
bank. Banking services provided through
Choice Financial Group and Column and A
members FDIC.
Jacob, thank you so much for being here.
Welcome to the podcast.
thank you for interfering with my sleep
all week out of my excitement. Usually
it's my newborn and toddler, but this
time I was waking up at 3:00 in the
morning thinking about and it's going to
be a great chat. So, I'm very excited.
Thank you for having me.
be worth it. It's going to be worth it
mostly to us to to extract all this
wisdom from your head. So, we're going
to be going deep on negotiation. How to
better negotiate for comp and this will
translate into all kinds of other ways
of in your life beyond comp. This is
something I personally been very, very
bad at in my career. Like I don't know
if I like maybe one time I pushed back
and negotiated
a higher comp, but I just like I've
always been really nervous to do this
and just really bad at this.
And I imagine most listeners are nervous
and bad at this. And you do this for a
living. You help people negotiate. Which
I don't think people even know this is a
thing that exists, that somebody's out
there that can help you negotiate. And
so, you've seen a lot of negotiations up
close.
Most of the people you work with just as
a context are very senior people, but a
lot of the stuff we're going to talk
about is going to apply to anyone at any
level.
Let me start with this question just to
give people a frame of reference.
How much comp are people generally
leaving on the table when they don't
even try to negotiate?
even without my help, just general
pushbacks, not aggressive, a simple
"What's the chance there could be more
here?"
kind of pushback. I mean, that's about
as easy as it can get. You get the
offer, you say, "What's the chance
there's a little bit more?" Almost
always see a 20% improvement on that.
And that is across the board from
earlier stage positions. Let's say they
gave you a $100,000 offer, 120 could be
there just from a simple push back,
which is
when you're making that kind of money,
that's life-changing, right? I've
noticed that when you make a
million-dollar W-2, same push back, 20%,
sometimes more, just on the what's the
chance, depending on how well you going
to navigate that interview process. Now,
on average, when I'm calculating out,
what I'm looking for with clients is
about 40% movement on an increase. We
have seen as much as 100, 200, 300, 400%
increases from initial offers.
Most notably, breaking salary bands,
which we all treat as gospel, which is
something we'll probably talk about
through the course of this this podcast
today. That uh you know, those that
challenge authority and challenge in a
meaningful and collaborative way will
win more than those that don't. And
what's interesting is
I found that product product leaders,
engineers, designers,
uh some of the more tend to be more
introverted and thoughtful types,
negotiate more poorly than the obnoxious
marketers and revenue leaders and the
more extroverted types. And it's
frustrating because if you look back at
the last, say, 25 years or so,
product has really defined the tech
generation in so many ways. This isn't
to discredit marketers or anything like
that. It's just to show that there's a
couple of sides of the business and and
everyone tends to negotiate a little
differently. So, you looking back at
your career and say, you know, the great
Lenny
had a tough time pushing back. I think
that's that's actually inspiring for a
lot of the listeners to see that
you're not alone in feeling this. It
doesn't have to be such an aggressive
thing. It doesn't have to be
confrontational. The simplest advice
that I can give you is, what's the
chance there could be a little more?
simple ask. And even that, 20 30%. So
again, a lot of people listening to this
are just like afraid to ask
for more. There's like uh I'm going to
come across as greedy.
Uh I'm going to it's all going to fall
apart. They're going to be like, what
are you what are you talking about? No,
……（中部抽样）……
no, forget it. Or they you know, they
of money, and they are a big piece of
And
just have the confidence to know that
happening. You've had a lot of great AI
can you help me understand what's
know, we're
success happen. Those are the types of
hundreds of thousands. And in some of
comp.
almost anybody would pay 10 to save 300.
if that happens, it almost dilutes the
negotiation.
think. So,
product manager Lenny.
known, your reputation.
to make?" and you say, "Oh, you know,
And the problem with that is I can't
language, you can correct
in the game, who controls the P&amp;L, who
I love how tactical we're getting here.
This is called home field advantage.
say I'm unavailable until that time
but so they used to walk outside of the
flow more naturally when you do This is
day are you most comfortable? If you can
are closed at 8:30 at night after a
What's kind of like the step-by-step you
right? I'm excited to work with you. We
you're talking to advisors, you're
Right? So, any ask that you make is not
It's a little lighter than I expected.
especially in this market and this if if
were the in ranges of 185 to 285, that
Right? This is how bigger moves happen.
Right? But if you say, "What do you want
ceiling. And what often happens is
say, "We want 1.3."
find the ceiling there, did we?
exchange, why not push for more?
been kind of baked into my my psyche for
don't pull that on me. I know what
And he goes, "Five binkies."
And that indicates that the person
recruiters only reach out to you when
best possible. But, it could be
I mean this is what it is very
I used to be a marketing manager making
not very good. That's fake title.
apart when you try to do that? Because
that differently because you want some.
because naturally your needs are getting
because it's an authoritative figure and
somebody's going to treat you depending
Or they have to say,
of thousands if not millions more in
better fit?"
feels like maybe the core
actually doing the job that's on their
it's very clear that it's a director
And they say, "But you said you only
organization, think enterprise B2B deals
discovery process.
consultations or brainstorming sessions.
of the work that I've done. Is there
And then we want to share, "What have
starting to understand where the dirty
like a pain in the most position. I've
there may be five other PMs but I can
they can do on their own.
things really start to unlock. And
as sell the vacation, help them
director didn't want to just do movie
because if we're leaning on logic and
you're on the outside and you're having
should I sign your agency?
have?
really easily because I'm on the phone
So, I'll sometimes do two or three
with me for a second,
this is manipulative and like it could
when I'm talking to these executives and
readers are going like this guy's a
thing. But when it comes to navigating
of you moving forward. So, we already do
And I want to ask for that feedback
if I didn't make the mark, I'd say, "I'd
I'm going to solve churn for you. I'm
understand. And I would also add that
really help.
worth that you wouldn't accept more.
true.
actually knows your business
help feel more confident about they will
in your career have made you a top tenth
understanding what to do. You understand
Maybe it's the CEO. What do they care
So, for product folks, instead of
Remember how rough it was to go back to
basically as a product team, you're
built. Tell me about that, how that
with me by leading.
thing. But I'm making it frictionless
succeed.
interviewing for product role,
So, I'm building scarcity about my time.
That's why it starts much sooner.
What are the odds you can kind of flip
million a year. They were specifically
you go into this conversation and you
say. Can you tell me more about that?"
on the team?"
a little digging and it it looks like
that's just not how it is."
uh the game of Werewolf
Right?
what others make, they know what they'll
like your job is to make these rules.
first. Try to get them to share number
One one brief example of this, I had a
6 months of base salary is like 187.5,
right?
I am a a big believer in Aristotle and
need there.
another female, I might say, "You know,
possible here. You know what levers we
my arm around you, if you're comfortable
is a hundred and two hundred
push on more money. What we went for was
show that they're safe and committed to
equity, it usually doesn't. Right? There
violin. 2.4 million a year this CEO
to hire you?" And she's like, "I don't
we came to a stall point and we found a
said earlier, being busy at the airport,
another candidate." Or they make you an
it was rescinded. And so I I took this
women.
call the CEO, explain what happened.
I made a mistake
deliver, take ownership of that. Take
Dubai or you're from New York or you're
African-American gal
get 80% out there'?"
"Jacob, don't tell them to do that. I
out of the company.
putting together a game plan to advocate
have to have the guts to do that. And
backgrounds. Maybe speak to just like if
I don't have a gun to my head, I just
frameworks and and academic, we stop
When we were talking about that game of
Predetermined.
ask somebody,
Like, if I had a million dollars, I
One of these Hollywood deals we did,
movies and they were very successful,
That individual was making $10 million a
Like, at the end of the day, if you're
not always about money.
after taxes is like eight, right? And
in 2 days.
Have you ever heard this? A million
What's like what's the first thing they
recruiter is going to split the
Again, with the nuance, you may have
That's who I want to close with. And I
texting the hiring manager saying, "Open
you can go to.
accessible. Right? In my
understand psychology a little bit
how to solve that for my entire career.
listeners with?
around you. Right? If your cup
a lot of people do
else. You need to find that center that
you find yourself recommending most to
made simple.
met Kim Scott, she's phenomenal. Like
So
bit.
this last year and I've lost almost 50
that's a principle from Cialdini, also,
predetermined. We were not really
……（接近结尾）……
that got me was that now the mom feels
all this guilt because she could have
saved her son's life if she knew we
existed.
And that part like I was in tears
thinking about that. Um
I did
I have talked a little bit about my
son's diagnosis. Like it's not defining
our life, but my wife and I prayed about
this and it was
if it would happen to anyone, it should
happen to us because if as soon as that
happened, I I made a handful of phone
calls. I
I did all this networking to be selfish
and build my career and do these things
and in that give before you ask it to
receive philosophy I've always kind of
lived by that undersell over deliver.
And within 24 hours of his diagnosis I
had a phone call from the chief medical
officer of Denver Children's Hospital at
Stanford and I got a call from the FDA
that said don't worry the sun your son's
medication is getting lower to one year
old and the Trikafta is going from six
to two. So he may never experience a
symptom in his life
because this is changed now.
So
like I felt this is immense blessing and
support through that. So that's the
foundation we we support these rural
areas that don't have access to that
health care.
And then I've also started conversations
with the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation
which
really helped funding they helped fund
the life-saving medication that changes
the life expectancy from 7 to 70 years
old. Like they are expected to have full
lives now. So that's something I'm very
passionate about.
Oh man, there's so many so many this
topics and directions we could have gone
with this.
Uh
Jacob
the water man. Sorry. I yeah I monologue
like nobody's business.
Um okay, working folks find you online
if they want to reach out maybe follow
up on some of this stuff and how can
listeners be useful to you?
advocating for themselves.
Rising tide forever. That's important.
Uh I don't
I guess I don't really have social
media. I deleted LinkedIn. Uh the post I
wrote about that kind of went viral on
Substack. It's cool. I share I think I
shared that one with you. Uh I have
execsinthesity.com
which yes is a play on Sex in the City.
It's kind of explaining some of the
things that uh people are afraid to talk
about. So execsinthesity is my Substack.
And I write once a week on Thursday
morning and I share
little thoughts on what's happening.
Occasionally I'll share case studies on
what clients have done. I'll share
play-by-plays and the actual scripts.
That's also where I have a free job
search course. It's about 8 hours that I
filmed and I sold for like a grand and
now I just give it away for free.
That's also available on the YouTube,
which is Execs in the City.
Which I have like 100 subscribers, so
don't expect a lot of content for me.
I'm not I'm not pumping out video
content all the time.
Um and then there's a small paid tier if
somebody wants to get discounts on
coaching. They also get access to Jacob
GPT. Well, it's another AI I mentioned.
It's digitally trained on I think you
have one, too, right?
it's like a
Jacob bot, which is a minor Lenny bot.
Right? Trained on my content. Yeah, and
um then I do some additional case
studies for them. Uh and then my actual
business is thinkwarwith.com,
uh which just tells you outcomes that
that we've been able to deliver. So, uh
I'm not going to ask you for Instagram
or anything like that. Just real simple.
Try to keep it at Substack only, really.
much for being here.
today and again I was real giddy about
it and your motto was to have fun. I had
a lot of fun today. Thank you.
see this if they're waiting till the end
of this podcast. I have this little
pocket I show all the guests that our
goal is to have fun.
Uh so, Easter egg. All right, Jacob,
thank you so much. Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app.
Also, please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review [music] as that
really helps other listeners find the
podcast. You can find all past episodes
or learn more about the show at
lennyspodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.