TITLE: Oura’s Tom Hale: What People Don’t Tell You About Being CEO
CHANNEL: Sequoia Capital
DURATION_S: 3580  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-26T17:15:37+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9kTMdaC0Fz0
SHA256: 93a431db7944ab3daa024c30bf2d7fd0cf5721e00cabcf927b633ca3a4c8ffa6

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2000] companies between 200 and 2,000
  [50%] you 50% of the value for free because I
  [100%] &gt;&gt; 100%.
  [100000] know, 100,000 generations of humanity
  [30%] 10, 15, 20, 30% of performance because
  [1.5] price ratio north of 1.5 or 2. And new
  [2012] And then 2012.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Just by paying attention to the work
that was happening at all levels of the
company from the lowest to the highest.
By paying attention and being like,
"Hey, that's a really good idea or have
you considered this?"
It made a culture of it's okay to have
ideas and have them move up and down.
And by the way, people would challenge
me. And in challenging me then they felt
confident that like we were going to get
to the best idea because it wasn't just
my idea. Creating this sort of
non-hierarchical culture that's not
bound by time or geography or role,
really powerful.
old friend of mine who's the CEO of
Oura, of Oura Ring fame. When I was in
my early 50s, I had a very bad
snowmobile accident and drove with
snowmobile
and you can't see my body, but it's
absolutely chock-full of metal and I
thought I was going to die that night. I
was lying at the bottom of the cliff
and
um
I've been a CEO of HubSpot for 15 years
like I'm done. I'm I'm tired. I'm done.
I'm burnt out. He went the other way,
you know, he had been kind of a
corporate executive some really
interesting companies his whole career.
In his early 50s he's like, "I want my
shot." And so we talked about that what
he didn't expect from the job, the good,
the bad, and the downright ugly of being
a CEO. He's pretty thoughtful about
that.
What really is interesting to me about
Tom is he spent his entire life in
companies between 200 and 2,000
employees. That is the messy middle.
That's where things slow down. That's
where bureaucracy happens. That's where
middle managers happen. That's where you
really slow the gears of progress down.
And we talk a bunch about what it takes
to keep that engine revving through that
and how not to get caught in the
quagmire.
We also talked about he's got a team in
in Finland. This company was started in
Finland and he's got a team here in the
US.
And man, are they different?
Um the Americans are obviously very
capitalist creatures and the Finnish are
much more on the socialist side. And we
talk about how to manage those two. And
a lot of you are in the US now and
thinking about going international. I
think there's a lot of lessons here for
you.
So, lots of good stuff. I'm going to get
you back at the end with my take on what
he had to say.
Thanks for being here.
have a little story for you.
Four years ago, I was snowmobiling in
Woodstock, Vermont. As one does. Yes.
And with my son and the snowmobile went
off a cliff.
Snowmobile's in a million pieces. My son
and I were in a million pieces.
Um and at the bottom of that I know one
knew where we were and it was 4:00 in
the afternoon.
I was pretty sure we were both going to
die that night.
And while I was sitting there at the
bottom of the cliff, I said, "I need to
make some big changes in my life." No
more snowmobiles. Yes, that too.
[laughter]
But the biggest change was I don't want
to be a CEO anymore. Uh-huh. Why did you
want to be a CEO after all these years?
Um I think the obvious answer and maybe
the the really the true answer is it was
a bucket list item I had to check off my
list.
this is TMI, but I also wanted to prove
to myself that [snorts] I had it Yep.
hoped? And more.
than I thought and I'm sure you can
appreciate that and any CEO in the world
will appreciate that. Much harder. Much
harder than I thought.
it's
it's not the work that's harder, it's
the responsibility and the stress. It's
the waking up at 4:00 a.m. and being
like, "Oh my god, is this going to
work?" And and what is it going to take
to make it work?
That I think it's pressure, it's stress,
it's responsibility, it's all the people
that you have you know, you
they they've put their faith in you
whether it's your board or your
employees or your customers and you have
to carry that and you know, what they
say, the buck stops here. Absolutely
true. Mhm.
I felt [snorts] that too. I was pretty
calm in the first four or five years of
HubSpot, but I was kind of stricken with
stress and started having I never had
any before panic attacks like five years
in and it was that. It was like, "Oh
man, we have 100 employees and they're
really counting on me."
What do people misunderstand about
CEOing?
Well, I think they think it's a lot more
fun than it is.
don't I don't think actually it's not
fun. I think there is fun. I just think
that the sort of ratio of kibble, you
know, to champagne favors the kibble
Yes.
the responsibility which we just talked
about, but part of it is also you kind
of the things about work that I really
enjoy like building something in a fine
grain of detail and making it beautiful
and and and owning that and feeling
pride in that. And I I still get that,
but just not as much.
everyone gets to participate in the
success, but in some way like it's
really your team, it's not you who gets
to own that success. But you know what?
Participating in failure, you get to own
that failure because in many cases like
it was either your decision or your
direction or the system that you set up.
So, I think that's I think that's the
thing people get wrong is they don't
they don't understand. They think it's
like it's glamorous and it's it's this
and that and you're on podcast or
whatever. Like that's sure, there's an
element of that, but like that is not
the main portion of the experience. At
least not for me. I call it the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;]
umbrella. You have to like absorb all
the [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] for the company.
that you're on a boat and that boat if
it's going great, your job is while
everyone's over on this side of the boat
being like, "Hey, everything's great
over here." And you have to be on this
side being like, "Everything's terrible.
We have to think about that." And vice
versa, when everything's terrible, you
got to go to the other side of the boat
and be like, "Hey guys, there is light
on the horizon and where we're going is
going to be great. It may feel terrible
right now, but we've got to get there."
And I think that that's that's a big
job, a big job of responsibility and
it's hard. Mhm.
I had some CEO heroes that I copied. I
copied Steve Jobs, Jerry Garcia, and my
dad. They were my Mount Rushmore
Well, you know, Steve Jobs I think would
make it for sure. Um and I We're kind of
we're probably similar age and I think
people who grew up
We were an ISV on the on the Apple
platform. So, we got to meet him a
couple of times and he was a hero. The
person who came back and and recovered
Apple from its demise was a hero,
bonafide. Um and the sort of champion of
creative professionals. So, he would be
one. I think not necessarily a CEO, but
Gandhi partially because he uh
sort of as a man of the people and I
think humility is such an important both
value for me personally, but also for a
CEO. It's important. So, so Gandhi would
have it. And then God, if I had to think
of one more,
um
Oh, I know who it would be. So, Maya
Angelou.
Um not because she's such a great CEO,
but because she said something which I
really believe is which is like people
will remember how you make them feel.
And I think as a leader the unintended
consequence is actually the greatest
risk, not the intended consequence. And
if you leave people feeling, you know,
in a way that you don't intend to, I
think that could be devastating for a
company. A lot of CEOs of the generation
under younger than we are,
it's not Jobs, it's Elon.
better or worse his work ethic
and 996 and a hard coreness about it. Um
this whole generation of founders is
kind of like that. What's your take on
that? And is is is your company like
……（中部抽样）……
that? Um
making sure that you are
least in my book. And so it it it at
never say 996, but we say like no, we
balance, that's what we talk about. We
recovery. And that's like you just ship,
and dial it down. You got to recognize
Um
And so,
you know, we're all It's very socialist,
go outside and it's very cold and we get
Oulu, which is a little bit further,
it's freezing cold, I'm sitting there
socialist.
elements of our culture which are shared
different from the US culture and what
and they generate activity in in ways
post-pandemic people got a little more
um well, first of all, I think COVID, in
bunch of other norms about how you work,
like in recovery post-COVID. And so, um
practice of bringing people together,
you know, whatever. Yeah, at the team
trust me or you're listening to me or
big a big part of what we did. I think
you know what I can do? I can kind of
that was happening at all levels of the
challenge me. And in challenging me,
bound by time or geography or role,
a lot of the
up hiring a lot of people and sometimes
bozos, just to be clear, you know,
course, is that you lose whatever it was
And I think what's interesting is that
is a
that. And And people can talk to me.
was really great." And that Those little
so I took two things away from there.
they're not doing a good job. And say,
One other thing I know we'll come back
there's this amount of work and this
sort of get the most out of your human
versus people, because that that's sort
we behave. We don't do this." I think
work to people, because what happens is
borrow your little
can.
or maybe I don't know. I think my kids
What's that?
couple tricks. I don't know. Um I think
possible. I think this is famously a
always do that. But one one of the
who's in middle management who has no
you hire is an ambitious middle manager
that you do is you say, "Listen, um we
have some advice for you, and I might
piece of it is you create a company
if you have enough time and energy to
this, this is more in B2B than B2C,
How do you stay in touch with the
company and then distributed within the
always had like
going to, you know, at B2B going and
in this organization. You're successful
you got me pregnant. Um
someone's life today. What am I going to
10, 15, 20, 30% of performance because
right? Um and and so I mean it's it's
think if you have mercenaries in your
uh you find the people who care about
true. Yep. But the reality is the people
missionaries in the company and to to
I think mercenaries are also a caustic
uh and drive a commercial outcome. And
jollys out of seeing the numbers and
business model shift.
in the org, in your head? Was that the
the most competitive hardware company in
And that's it. And you might ship a, you
that value to go in that next version of
Yeah. Every month. Now, by the way, $6 a
to be sick, or we tell you when to, you
strategy.
was contentious. And partially
be really sad if you stopped paying for
you probably have a right to charge for
zombie subscriptions, and the customer
you're still collecting price.
"Listen, one, um there's a reason that
you're getting a new release every
price that we take. So, that was that
in our version of it, if you were gen
transition in business model as smooth
deal. In fact, some of our most loyal,
Why not? Because that's how it's sold.
subscription product. And if you pay, uh
that some people were like, "Oh,
it's hard to change that. There's no no
non-subscription
2, Mhm. then you know, you're doing it
rolled out? Like that kind of thing
you know, connect with me on LinkedIn.
I'm not sure that's true. Okay. Because
if you think about sort of the the the
should roll it back." and then talk
the phone, and I was like, "Oh, this is
went through. And by the way, like I I
being uncomfortable.
new way to think about hardware um and
founders about pricing. Like a lot.
And I think there's a big cost to that
between what they would pay and what
product for free,
called Natural Cycles. They make a FDA
of a $6 a month subscription? Probably
case, there is kind of a a tier Yeah. um
the right one, which is the delta
complexity kills. It does. Complexity
like it's a
Another question that a lot of founders
fail.
who you partner with. And maybe one of
make money and make you know, there's
classes of partners, too. There are
Cycles and Oura, great example of a
um
partnership is literally your best way
need partners to do it. This is why
it start? I don't know.
beautiful? Can you put diamonds on it?
with with Gucci, they they had the
fashion part of it.
gladiatorial contest where you were
remember so distinctly about that was
Um Were you dealing with the CEO of
And he says, no.
like 5 weeks. Sweet. And it was just And
of value. That their value was the
to a Gucci store. Okay. And the thing
you and you want to look at it. You want
Best Buy, Costco, you know,
work? Did Gucci pay you $299 for
know, because of course uh we we
way. So, that's the that's the so what
bigger
until Salesforce says it.
the announcement. Are Do you have the
platform is going to come out with it.
wearable.
Uh they provide a lot of utility during
different you know, things that deal
when your body's at rest and so the data
derive more things from it. All sort of
data is kind of the the oil for
is there is there different ways to
the barriers are are interestingly lower
serve one of our one of our customers
control of that. By the way, that was a
business model question is to think
software and that is the value
of physics and cost and the fact that
you are good before you try and scale up
model them, like that's unprecedented.
What advice would you give them?
Mhm. So, you know, I've run call
and I did like, you know, running big
maybe more importantly, um you start to
said the exact same thing.
He's a first-time CEO, and I spend most
it's actually way more stressful than
times their parents are counting on me.
Um
surprises particularly technical
save you. Your co-founders aren't going
……（接近结尾）……
slow and fire fast.
It's very old, and it's very true. Now,
it's easier said than done. Lots of
founders tell me, the first time I
thought I should have fired somebody, I
should have fired them cuz I always end
up firing them. I say that same thing,
but I never really did it. I was always
more patient than I should have been,
but I'm also a homo sapien, and it was
hard for me to do that.
The second thing I would say is you hit
200 employees,
and maybe get some VPs, and that's when
the director layer shows up. And in
particular when you hire that director
layer from the outside, they're kind of
a professional middle manager. And so
push that director layer off as long as
you can. Keep the span of control. Maybe
it's not Jensen Huang's 60, but keep it
wide and avoid that middle layer.
Um the thing that really helped HubSpot
is we talked about
EV,
enterprise value,
versus TV,
your team's value, versus MEV, your own
value. And the thing
that happens inside of companies is as
they get bigger, people don't solve for
themselves as much, they solve for the
team. And when they solve for their
team, they kind of sub-optimize the team
next to them, so that TV is where a lot
of execs in a lot of companies fall
down. So, I recommend that. I wrote on
whiteboards all over the place, EV
greater than sign TV greater than sign
MEV, and I kind of pounded that into the
company. Anytime someone in a meeting
was talking very TV, I would push on the
EV. I don't think you should have all
been there, done that folks. I think you
should have 50% been there, done that,
and 50% homegrown. That institutional
knowledge for the homegrown is super
useful.
People underestimate the value of
homegrown and how people can grow and
learn. So, I like that ratio.
And the last thing I would just say is
Elon, this is a big Elon thing.
I was at the Sequoia's uh base camp
event. Um must have been 10 years ago
where he did this vector alignment
thing, and he described all his
employees as vectors. And they were
different sizes. Some people were more
powerful than others, but they were kind
of all pointed in different directions.
And he said the key for him is no matter
how big or small the employee is, how do
you get them all pointed in the same
direction and get stuff done? Vector
alignment and a little tiny bit of
lightweight planning can help you a lot
with that.
Those are some of my tricks to not fall
into the 200 to 2,000 trap. Okay, Tom
had some interesting thoughts on
pricing. I do, too.
Um
you know, when Moses came down from the
mountain,
it's well known he had 10 commandments,
five on one tablet, five on the other.
It's not as well known that there was a
third tablet with an 11th and a 12th
commandment. The 11th commandment
was over time, your product's pricing
will go up.
The 12th was over time, your product's
pricing will get more complicated.
Now,
your sales organization loves that. Your
products don't. What I liked about what
Tom did, he shifted his business model
to subscription, but he kept it
relatively cheap. It's six bucks a
month.
Um and
you know, he he he didn't overcomplicate
it. It was quite simple. And I think the
move for for founders is like if the
supply and demand curve looks like this,
people very quickly rush to almost
perfectly match that supply and demand
curve, the willingness to pay with the
pricing model. And that encourages
complicated and more expensive.
I think that's fine when you're 15 years
old, but in startup mode, I think you
want a gap between those two things. You
want a less [music] adversarial
relationship with your customers. You
want to be delivering maximum value to
get word of mouth. And that gap is
goodwill, and that goodwill pays itself
back in spades. So,
don't maximize that supply and demand
curve would be my advice. Okay, those
are my thoughts on Tom. Some really good
tips [music] in there, I thought. I hope
you enjoyed it, and I'll see you on the
next episode of Long Story Short.