TITLE: Building AI for better healthcare — the OpenAI Podcast Ep. 14
CHANNEL: The OpenAI Podcast
DURATION_S: 1855  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-16T17:00:00+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VAzryGwnJW8
SHA256: 256871ee044909510f10f567ca234fccf0da672b97843aa106e28880f34158a0

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [49000] measured around 49,000 different
  [5000] physicians who created over 5,000
  [48500] conversations and 48,500 rubric criteria

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Hello, I'm Andrew Maine, and this is the
OpenAI podcast. Today, we're talking to
Dr. Nate Gross, head of health, and
Karan Singh
who leads health AI research at OpenAI.
We'll cover what went into training
models to handle sensitive questions,
and how it's helping clinicians,
patients, and health care systems. We
actually worked really closely with with
a group a cohort of around 250
physicians across every stage of of
generation this data. And we're starting
to see medications that have been
sitting on a shelf that all of a sudden
AI has found ways for them to have
direct value in in patient lives.
How did you find your way into health
care?
So,
what what drew me to health care
initially was health policy.
I was was very interested. This was
before the
the first Obama election. Value-based
care was first becoming a thing. I I
started studying
uh
different ways to make health care more
accessible to more people. And then
eventually went to Emory for medical
school. And and what what drew me to
that was a large public hospital, Grady
Hospital.
You know, to make sure that you're
you're taking advantage of every
clinical hour you have. So, what kind of
things were you doing?
So, I was mostly pissing off the IT
department.
the newsfeed came out, the iPhone came
out, uh Twitter came out, the App Store
came out. And and so comparing
the technology that we had as doctors,
which was fax machine, clipboard, paper
binder, the beginnings of electronic
health records, to like what my friends
had or what the patients had in the
waiting room was pretty profound.
So, you come at it from the point of
view as an AI researcher. Where did your
interest in applying this to health care
come from? So, I I nerded out a lot when
I was younger about things like
philosophy of mind, and I thought a lot
about, you know, intelligence, and how
far could intelligence go, and could
machines be intelligent? Um
and um a lot of those explorations took
me towards as I was learning about AI
and starting to work on my first AI
projects, thinking a lot about the ways
in which AI could have a lot of impact
on humanity in the future. And I thought
something like I didn't I didn't predict
the future or how fast it would happen,
but I thought something like AGI would
happen within our lifetimes.
So then once once I had that conviction,
I thought a lot about, you know, what
are the ways in which I can have either
positive impact and and hopefully make
that a really large upside for humanity
or think about the ways in which we
could avoid downside. So since then in
my career I've been thinking a lot about
both sides of that coin, thinking about
that from the perspective as a safety
researcher, which is part of my
background, and then really some of that
work on safety and privacy that I was
working on previously, I started
applying it in health care and then I
started being like, "Whoa, there is a
really massive opportunity to think
about the application of this
technology, especially large language
models, in health care." And that's what
took me to transitioning to it full-time
was just the size of that opportunity
and the fact that I felt like the health
care and clinical AI world was kind of
not fully aware of that of that gap. Um
and so I just thought it was kind of a
really amazing opportunity and
responsibility to to bring us there. I
want to understand both the vision and
actually how this is going to be
implemented. So our mission at OpenAI is
to ensure that AGI benefits all of
humanity. And and health is one of the
places where I think that is not only
most achievable, um but is the clearest.
So health care today, as everyone knows,
is fragmented.
Care is missed left and right. Patients
are often left 364 days per year without
the opportunity to engage with the
organizations that have the information
centralized.
And doctors uh have extremely limited
time when they do get that chance to
engage with the patient to actually have
uh you know a a meaningful impact beyond
a simple surgery or a simple reactive
prescription. You know, the system is
more reactive than it is proactive
today.
And that leads to uh you know,
tremendous challenges in the system. It
leads to tremendous gaps in care. It
leads to you know, leaving people behind
in situations when they could be
thriving and
uh one of the reasons that I joined
OpenAI is is because
access has always been a a through-line
uh in in my life. Access to knowledge
first in medicine, then in building a a
product for uh doctors to access the
latest medical literature, and then in
supporting entrepreneurs as they were
building healthcare tools.
But
OpenAI has the type of technology that
can can do that at scale for the entire
ecosystem all at once. Help patients,
help healthcare professionals,
and uh help incredible entrepreneurs who
are building for all of the corners and
edge cases and tough challenges that
exist in in each area of the the health
market. What is the strategy here? We
know that people use chatbots all the
time now for medical questions, but it
seems like you're building and working
towards something bigger and more
comprehensive, not just for the patient
side, but the clinician side. Could you
talk about like what your goals are?
Patients are increasingly turning to
tools like ChatGPT throughout the year.
In fact,
900 million people now use ChatGPT per
week, and if you look at how many are
are doing health-related queries, it's
about one in four in a given week. So,
that's 40 million people per day.
And so, our strategy in health is as
much proactive as it is reactive in
stepping up to the responsibility uh and
and the opportunity to do good that that
comes with that strong consumer demand.
And so, uh with ChatGPT health, we have
created a a space to keep these
conversations not just secure,
but empowered. Um so, when I say secure,
of course, uh encrypted with this
essentially one-way valve protecting
your conversations. So, these extra
security layers, these protections to
make sure that we will never train on on
users' healthcare data
combined with empowerment really. Um you
know, search engines that that people
have used it before to navigate health
have amnesia. Um you know, they're
they're one-size-fits-all and uh I I
think context really matters in
healthcare. And so, um building a
a a series of of features and and
technology hooks to help patients bring
in their own context that they choose
to, so that each time they choose to
engage with AI, it's grounded in their
own context uh is is a
key reason why we've built this ChatGPT
for health foundation. So, I understand
the safeguards you put in place to keep
the data separate and to make sure that
you don't get leaked between there and
to be able to, you know, undergo uh a
very rigorous method of making sure that
your data's secure. But, when it comes
to the model itself, what comes into
training models that are capable of
working with something like healthcare?
It's kind of like the most important
thing in the world. For sure. It's a
high-stakes domain and because of the
use of that that people are doing, it's
super important that we get it right.
So, we think a lot about a few things
when we think about evaluation and
training for healthcare. And this is
actually the foundation for the work at
health at OpenAI. Um when we were first
starting to work on the health effort at
OpenAI, we were thinking a lot about the
safety and grounding motivation as an
important part of what we were doing.
And so, part of the thesis actually for
starting work on health at OpenAI was
thinking, this is an excellent way to
ground our work in safety and alignment
and provide kind of concrete incentives
and feedback loops for researchers who
think about this problem. Um so that's
like the model improvements in the
safety safety thinking here is not just
……（中部抽样）……
an afterthought, it's actually the the
evaluation. So can we can we think about
people then and there's already starting
were using them for.
do the models still have gaps today? And
And so we're taking a pretty
that and a lot of that has reflected in
uh realistic evaluation of conversations
models
situations which are these kind of
actually worked really closely with with
that we work with to kind of across
you know, the areas that we would focus
thought about what we're going to be
specific things that are being graded in
tailoring your response to a layperson
ways in which you should seek context
The models used to be significantly
typing in, you know, much less than the
user types in it burns, you know, how
some initial information potentially
what the user might be saying, but the
situation is actually to ask for more
of measure performance in Health Bench
dimensions of performance and that's
very multifaceted evaluation that we
period of time and it took us about a
the kind of the the model
and somebody comes up and catches up and
consistently been far ahead in Health
Why is that? I I think we have a pretty
and and kind of
like like Health Bench to monitoring in
in in production traffic in in a
step of that process. And so,
of model training from pre-training to
health into every major stage.
own benchmarks, but also the benchmarks
Karen said about the the the model
ecosystem,
to them. So,
physicians who created over 5,000
AI responses and and score them and
uh do additional data acquisition, uh do
area of the world where users were
specific topic.
really leads to calling out the the most
uh
uh a medical school exam or board exam.
coming in with a tremendous amount of
presented in many different ways and and
those disparate sources, uh draw from
mechanism that
keep that always as the the top priority
the the one-size-fits-all handouts that
differently when it knows you're an
a patient at the 12th-grade literacy
making sure that um um accuracy and and
participate in their own care on the
a year and a half ago, many of the the
hallucinations. And I think in in such a
is that the model can be trained to
suggest follow-up that can be dug into
doctor if the doctor is using the model,
sure that uh the the patient can be led
year, and it's exciting because every
health care across the board. But what
ahead to say that, okay, we have to
here because so much of what we think
have access um to the technology, the
rolling out ChatGPT health more widely
Another thing that we think about as
the most, right? And so I I think Nate
being collected that is across different
different ways that people use ChatGPT
this that people are collecting, lab
of the intelligence will compound and
looks at my entire history over a decade
the model has a higher context size.
be really cool. The other thing we keep
Um can we can we measure that? Can we
right now. I I I call this on our team
work um and I bike to work, I wear my
reached the point here in SF, you know,
the point where, you know, when I'm when
a human driver, right? I don't worry
this protective effect by being next to
everybody to have this protective effect
have a doctor in your family that adds a
they're patient or a health
want to feel safer um having this. As a
you're making. So that's another
is really exciting. Um this kind of
about is kind of like the right ways to
I think a good example here um that I
with Panda Health. Um
actually thought about the ways in which
basically um monitoring uh things that
when um there's something
this. What we found is that when we
statistically significant reduction in
versus not. And I think this is a step
monitoring of the ways in which people
workflows in which these technologies
deployment. I think that's another
our partners. Nate, what do you think
the the challenges that exist uh on the
each day uh
the ability to trust what they're seeing
answers that the AI is providing are not
in the latest medical literature, the
institution or their own region. Uh some
Uh other times uh
of uh specialists and additional
to be able to quickly navigate that and
building connectivity within ChatGPT to
secure environments, but also be able to
uh a great path that we've started down
keep trust as the top priority between
So, I think one of the other challenges
the systems themselves in healthcare are
to be used within each organization.
technology industry, but uh increasingly
the hundreds of different systems, some
decentralized, many not on the cloud, uh
make sure that um patients and
connectivity can be maximized to to
it's it's certainly not something that
ChatGPT for healthcare and its uh
Frontier Foundation for models and
to be an opportunity to um
agents can achieve. Part of this seems
when using the ChatGPT health app, the
looked like there was a lot of just
to be? Where is this headed?
equal chance to uh
context that will help empower uh
the electronic health record side, this
Services uh adopting national standards
are able to um bring in their context in
mobile phones and the most popular
sure again in in just one or two taps,
in thoughtful ways, in ways that may not
this sort of ecosystem. So for instance
exercise activity when making a uh
simple as you know, reference your
for the next day and what tasks you may
smart ring, a watch, whatever, but I get
okay, I guess it's doing something.
those kinds of questions. But that's
suggestions, is literally say, "Hey, uh
really good at menu planning. It
saying we're just going to get more of
partnerships, I believe, are are so
replace the incredible technology that
wearable.
information, can now extend to the many
what they're going to cook for dinner,
Uh
navigate the health care system by
maybe has a spouse come with them. And
health care professional and is
connected to your personal calendar, and
with consent for the patients that that
easier for patients to follow care
health in in partnership with their
the the friction that historically
uh
of old information to parse and bring
of good or or we can help uh patients
of good in their own care plans. And you
because you don't always have more
And it's interesting to see a kind of a
as a complement to that. I mean, if
our our role internally at Open AI, we
buckets.
……（接近结尾）……
even even beyond the the ChatGPT health
product. Before we we announced the
ChatGPT health product,
um it's been one of our fastest-growing
use cases. This kind of health and
wellness questions and we we shared that
hundreds of millions of people a week
are starting to use ChatGPT for health
and wellness.
I think seeing that rapid growth,
especially, you know, coming from a
background of being motivated to work on
this problem because it felt like health
care and clinical AI world were not
super aware of the potential of LLMs in
health care and seeing how far we had
come, I I think has been a really
special moment for me.
There's no doubt that the adoption of
this technology and the and the fact
that uh it is increasingly collaborative
with with the health care system and it
is increasingly driving feedback loops
back to us to improve the models
is the most meaningful thing and the
most mission-aligned thing, but
what I also get excited about is is what
our research team is increasingly being
uh able to give back to them using that
feedback and
not only is it the capabilities of the
models,
but it's what can be unlocked once those
models are allowed to
run longer and have more context and
we're starting to see
discoveries of medications that have
been sitting on a shelf that all of a
sudden AI has found ways for them to
have meaningful and uh direct value in
in in patient lives.
It is starting to scale experiments that
uh you know, we as individuals wouldn't
have been able to juggle on our own.
Um and and that that partnership
combined with that increased capability
to finally move from being
interesting
to being useful
and
increasingly to being transformative
is I think what is the
most exciting thing for us heading into
this year. Now that you've been working
on this for some time, you've been
engaging with clinicians and talking to
people helping deploy this, what has
been some of the feedback you've seen? I
think I think the the experience of
flying to Nairobi and seeing the
clinicians using the tool and the ways
in which um we did this thing which we
call active change management where we
worked really closely with these
clinicians and uh flew to Kenya a couple
times to think about the ways that we
could deepen their workflows using the
AI tool um and make it something that
not only made sense to them but actually
became a kind of something that was um
indispensable for them. And so as we
were concluding the study um
the team was actually thinking about uh
the the team at Penda Health was
thinking about uh potentially running
another study.
Um and they actually had a lot of
hesitance around running another study
because that would have involved having
some group of clinicians using AI and
some group of clinicians not using AI.
They actually felt that it was dangerous
to have a group of clinicians not using
the AI. Um and so that's the point at
which I was like, "Wow, we we have done
something major here." I think that the
stories that we get back from our
members every day are are one of the
most meaningful parts of the job and
these are from
caregivers that are uh you know,
increasingly under strain taking care of
a family members trying to navigate
their own health at the same time.
Uh this is from uh doctors and nurses
who are truly overloaded every day and
um we can help them extend their
expertise uh and you know, compress the
the tough parts of their their day a
little bit more.
And then uh sometimes in in and this is
more rare but increasing,
it's the miracle cases. It's the the
patient who had been bouncing around the
system for years, the the unsolved
diagnosis, the
uh the emergency where information
wasn't present and suddenly being able
to step in and assist and accelerate and
bring people into the care that could
really help uh is uh
truly a privilege. It's exciting. It
it's is an amplifier and every doctor I
know wants to be able to do more for
their patients. Thank you very much.
This has been very interesting, guys.
Thank you.