TITLE: Trump 'Knew Nothing' About Israeli Attack on Iranian Gas Field | The China Show 3/19/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5695  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-19T05:12:15+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gjnJiV_iXjE
SHA256: 79f3e8dbbba3834636c004197b2f74a361a440fa9bf01b05ecdad9f29144df71

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2%] 2%. So, the renminbi bond is
  [5%] drop beyond 5% we've had in the last 12
  [25%] 25% of our properties are in the United
  [1500] past that 1,500 level as well. So,
  [1%] go. We are down 1% on E50 futures in the
  [0.75%] at 0.75%
  [20%] it. The Qatar accounts for 20% of global
  [2024] their worst month since 2024.
  [1.7%] 1.7%
  [3%] We're down 3% in Japan. Overnight also a
  [1.6] grow to 10 trillion from the current 1.6
  [10%] asset owners to allocate like 10% of
  [2025] 20 days than the entire year 2025. So no
  [6%] We're up 3 to 6% on energy prices today.
  [5.2] this year to more than 5.2 billion
  [1.2%] we're now session lows on that one 1.2%
  [2003] at the Iraqi conflict from 2003
  [2015] ensued. And then Janet Yellen the 2015
  [2018] 2018. So, for us I think uh
  [4%] tracking this. We are down 4%
  [45%] mean, it's way back down to around a 45%
  [7.8%] up 7.8%
  [2.6%] it's actually gaining 2.6% more models
  [14%] the board. Revenue growth of 13, 14%
  [3.7] is 3.7 trillion. So it's multiple times
  [30%] cloud product of more than 30%.
  [20000] impacting, you know, 20,000 people of
  [210000] their the global workforce of 210,000.
  [2026] even coming into 2026, I would I would
  [1.4] Beijing has built up an estimated 1.4
  [2.4%] is up as well here to [music] 2.4%. Lots
  [2017] 2017 and it couldn't have lifted it
  [3.8] we're now at 3.8 and US futures are now
  [11%] grow in total by 11%,
  [43%] our operating profits grew by 43%. So,
  [2035] Vision 2035. We
  [1450] more 1450 to 1550 level the range. So,
  [1550] more 1450 to 1550 level the range. So,

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
It's 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen,
and here in Hong Kong. You're watching
the China show, Manuela D'Rulerz with
David Ingles.
markets in greater China. Let's get to
your top stories today. Stocks across
the Asia Pacific dropping as oil and gas
prices are surging with [music] Iran and
Israel trading strikes on key Middle
East energy facilities. Now, Tehran says
sites across the Gulf are now legitimate
targets. The Fed holds rates and raises
its inflation outlook. Chair Jay Powell
citing uncertainty over the impact of
the war in Iran. Bonds as well set for
their worst month since 2024.
The implications of events in the Middle
East for [music] the US economy are
uncertain.
In the near term, higher energy prices
will push up overall inflation, but it
is too soon to know [music] the scope
and duration of the potential effects on
the economy.
Tencent shares are likely to drop in the
session today. That's after ADRs fell
the most in 5 months with a company
scaling back buybacks to spend more on
AI.
lots to get into today. Everything from
the latest in the Middle East, what's
happening in the energy markets, what
the Fed is how the Fed is looking at
what's going on there, and what that
means for the rates outlook, and of
course just the earning story here uh in
the Asia Pacific particularly in China.
Let me get started of course with Iran,
and it seems like the news flow
overnight and looking at how oil is
trading right now seems to have taken a
turn for the worst uh in terms of just
the energy infrastructure uh that's now
perhaps in play there. Yeah, I mean
there's been some really fascinating
comments coming out of this. Not only do
you have Asia being disproportionately
affected, but also some of the people
we've been speaking with are saying that
it's it's now hard to hard to see the
Qatar is coming back to the market
before the middle of the year, and even
that is maybe ambitious. So, it it is it
a problem that we haven't fully
estimated for or accounted for just yet
particularly as you said very much a
live situation. Right. You know, the
question going into I think at least in
over going into the last few days was
theoretically if the war ended say over
the next 24 hours from that point in
time, how quickly does energy supply
come back in, and how quickly does
energy that's simply just stopped make
its way to the global market, and I
think you have now doubts over that that
that that possibility coming to
fruition. And I think when you look at
what the Fed did and how they said it
overnight, they have still priced in a
cut
for the year.
Um bond markets look at how yields have
moved since that point in time are
clearly not believing they'll be able to
do that. Uh in fact right now going to
the Asia Pacific, we'll show you it
later on, uh that a cut is no longer
base case as far as rates markets go.
Yeah, and and again just so much
uncertainty, but just listen to to what
Jay Powell had to say.
The thing I really want to emphasize is
that nobody knows. You know, the
economic effect could be bigger, they
could be smaller, they could be much
smaller or much bigger. We just don't
know. So, people are writing down
something that seems to make sense to
them, but have no conviction that's that
you know, to your point. If we have high
uh you know, if we have a long period of
much higher gas prices, that's going to
weigh on consumption. That'll weigh on
disposable personal income,
and it'll weigh on consumption. But, we
don't know if that's going to happen. It
it something quite different than that.
We might have much lower than expected
pass-through.
So, there was a clear market reaction
off that. You saw yields moving higher
at the front end. You you saw stocks
moving lower. I think what's also
interesting uh is of course the earnings
that we're continuing to get through,
and Tencent was one of the really
notable ones after the session
yesterday.
And I thought the numbers that there was
actually a lot to like in the numbers,
but but investors still were really
focusing in on the negatives here, and
and and of course it's that big AI spend
that we're going to get. How much does
that impact their profit margins, and
that seems to be maybe the reason you
saw a bit of a pullback in ADRs. Yeah, I
think that yeah, you're right. The
narrative was because they're taking
some of the money that actually helped
prop the stock up and keep the stock up
the buybacks. They're taking it from
that. Uh but yeah, the dynamic of being
punished for CapEx seems to be working
in against the Tencent story. And you
know, a lot of the guests that we've
talked to, and one of the ones we're
coming on as well, is that the the the
market is focused on the wrong thing. Uh
when you look at the fact in Tencent.
Anyway, we'll look at Tencent in a
moment because there's that that's
really going to add to the risk worries
uh that are worries across the markets
today on top of the strong dollar, the
Philippine peso uh that's coming up if
not already uh has has weakened through
that 60 per dollar level, which the
central bank and very clearly in fact
when you talk to authorities there have
really moved to defend and really become
active in. And yeah, as things open in
Manila, dollar peso as you can see right
through that 60 handle. And I wonder
right now whether they're going to come
in and soothe these market moves given
all the volatility that's taking place
here, Bill. No, it's just going to say
on the currency front as well. We
actually just saw the Korean won moving
past that 1,500 level as well. So,
there's very clear effects implications
from this of of what's happening in the
Middle East. Yeah, absolutely. Energy
importers
EM energy importers
are really going to get hit today. So,
in fact, you know, you use a weak
currency like the peso to buy oil in
dollars, and when you look at oil today,
this is the visual integration of
effectively how it feels to pull your
nose hair. There you go. That's the pain
you're feeling across these markets.
We're up 3 to 6% on energy prices today.
Yes, we are back above 110 on Brent. The
dollar's coming through dollar yen. So,
we talked about round numbers.
A lot of central bank decisions today.
The BOJ is next on deck. Now, we have
Taiwan, and then we move to Europe where
the ECB and the Bank of England. When
you look at now coin toss odds for the
Fed to cut interest rates this year, 160
speaking of round numbers is one to
watch on dollar yen. Europe, let's have
a look at that and how we're trading
across that market there. So, that is
really the pain point across. We're down
1.7%
on futures there. Let's have a look at
how we're trading across the region.
Nikkei, Kospi, Taiwan,
and US futures coming on your screens.
We're down 3% in Japan. Overnight also a
terrible session when you look at the
Golden Dragon Index, the how the ETF
traded in the US.
Tencent obviously going to be very much
in focus. That's how the ADRs traded
overnight, mind you. We're likely to see
some further pressure in the cash
markets today, and in fact futures
coming up on your screens. Yes, there we
go. We are down 1% on E50 futures in the
opening minutes on the back of
everything that's taken place in the
Middle East. Yeah, let's get more on
that now because as you said, really one
of the top lines uh today is that Qatar
has reported extensive damage to the Ras
Laffan Industrial City. It has is the
world's largest LNG export plant. For
more on this, let's bring in Bloomberg
reporter Dan Murtaugh who joins us this
morning from Beijing. So, Dan, let's
just get to to the significance of this
and and how you're reading the market
moves off the back.
Yeah, it's really hard to understate or
overstate, sorry, the significance of
it. The Qatar accounts for 20% of global
LNG exports. Now, we don't know yet
what part of the Ras Laffan Industrial
Complex was damaged. In addition to the
LNG plant, there is also an oil
refinery, there's storage tanks, there's
a couple other facilities on there. So,
the market's going to be waiting with
bated breath for more news on extensive
in details on what's in what's uh what's
damaged, how long it's going to take to
……（中部抽样）……
repair, and when are they going to get
Um you know, in the near term, the the
the inventories are currently, how long
percentage,
can have ripple effects all across their
We're certainly seeing, you know, the
debris from an intercepted missile.
of Hormuz blocking off any kind of
at least double its investments in AI
its cash cow which is the gaming segment
spend at least 36 billion yuan but
time I think there was a lack of clarity
in China you could say that Tencent is
profits because of the expansion into
demand for AI computing power.
looking at Alibaba set to report.
show.
into the session today. So, it's
currently as things stand we are set for
goes just given the the uncertainty
stay put and then we keep the market
And the military spending it can go up
Japan, like UK. They will be
market sold off enough
tariff. Now it is gone. Nobody talks
Powell's term is ending soon Kevin Warsh
ensued. And then Janet Yellen the 2015
here. Private credit's been acting up
are inside these uh index. We have to
in the new issue, catch up and be a few
help grow the dim sum bond market. They
investors should be looking at in the
grow to 10 trillion from the current 1.6
their onshore bond exposure to this dim
globally? In fact, uh every day, the gas
There is no use to just uh use these
you're wearing a very nice colored suit.
buyback. Shares are also down. And Weibo
scoop coming down the last hour so. But,
eyes.
shrugging it off after President Trump's
mean, it's way back down to around a 45%
we are seeing stocks that are that are
surging off the back. But, otherwise, we
get more on this in just a moment. But,
helping their shares this morning.
reaction in markets given that,
on the wrong thing. What is the right
there was nothing wrong with the
claw with a few other products
great thing.
So before the open claw, Tencent was
because the model can solve some amazing
a sort of
producing
monetization side because we know that
a SaaS industry, that's software as a
Now even for the consumers
I think the willingness to pay is
So
lower. Uh that's just fact of life at
because of this
because the demand is already there.
So the fact they are able to raise
and that's allowed them to raise prices
emergence recently of some new names in
think things are changing.
demand and you have heard some of the
the underlying models can be easily
model? How likely you can be always be
out anytime they want to, right? So, the
into trading for Mainland equities, and
Hay. So, Adam, really great scoop from
impacting, you know, 20,000 people of
investors to a large degree have been
essentially, you know, too large from a
is. Have we heard from the bank, Adam,
stage. Um so, I don't think we'll be
of of organizations where manpower can
is does that just tell us that banking
space, that, you know, that the kind of
be able to implement it uh and really
is sending additional warships to the
tapping its commercial oil reserves as
on what President Trump's uh Hormuz
coming up next.
Uh whether that's higher rates, higher
is up as well here to [music] 2.4%. Lots
have to say, but
out, right? It's a timing duration
when you look at what's happening with
year. But it is a moving target, and
in in the Middle East? So, this is how
only big winner so far in the equity
tons of LNG out of the global markets
also might last.
planning for maybe four five months of
scramble for supplies? What are you
will mean that they won't be able to
even for fertilizer. I mean, it's it's a
and Qatar. And both are undergoing
field with Iran, but also because it's
Obviously, the period of stability was I
you need to to have some joint
without the approval from Iran. Now, if
continue whatever existed before to
with some lines we're getting from
saying that it knew or the US knew
think that there is
you know, whether it's Kharg Island or
Guards that are in charge of exports and
targeting also the Gulf countries, it's
damaged and how um
been sufficiently degraded
Hezbollah in Lebanon.
they're not coming to the rescue.
you know, protests and um march um to to
perhaps what to expect.
decides to attack
South Pars
of this gas facility this major LNG
maybe points to also the political pain
do join that if you're interested at
hours or so.
at quite severe damage here and to what
statement and and maybe does point to
precarious situation he finds himself in
symptoms
Yeah, but just to say I mean every
also available for playback later on. So
Israel and Qatar and we're now looking
coming across markets but a very low
comes out of every meeting for policy
crossing the Bloomberg terminal.
influencing effects. That's just to say
that key 60 level
Middle East, Southeast Asia of course.
there in as far as the currency is
well in a conversation in about a couple
live shot here this morning of the
risk from what's happening in the Middle
Palace, Marunouchi where I think you
Vuchot, CEO at The Hong Kong and
sadly
properties. But but how are you thinking
suffering. The main cause is really for
very very strong patronage of guests
whether Did you have any concrete How
25% of our properties are in the United
commercial properties. We operate this
because we've been showing here probably
grow in total by 11%,
protected. But at the same time,
and transform. What does that mean in
to transform which is to go back into a
are one of the few hotel companies that
properties are already in in a shared
hotel luxury operators have been doing
pillars for our strategy. We coined it
of the business? I think in fact what we
and and many other joint ventures that
what wellness experiences are we going
and and and celebrate moments together.
comments, but still [music] we are in
attention has been forced into
date was Japan,
sentiment, also feeling the concerns
And and also the government's very
longer, then probably, you know, they
time in about three decades. But
the negative impact will be very
for for for the economy.
expect that some interventions
level. So, for now, we believe that, you
Let's also
East to the list of economic risks. This
you know,
their earlier rate hikes on the economy.
……（接近结尾）……
BOJ's rate action in coming month.
Minju, I'm just going to read through
some of the parts of the statement out
for your benefit, hopefully clear.
It's actually rare that we get a
reference, specific reference in the
statement to an external event so
frequently. The Middle East has come up
at least three or four times
in the statements.
That it is one of the risks that they're
tracking very closely,
that the recent oil price rise will be
helping them boost inflation. It's
obviously something that they're noting
they're noting in as far as how quickly
oil prices have risen. Mhm. While we
don't know when they will move next and
to your point, they might just keep the
door very open
and and and vague on that.
Near term though, what impact do you see
to the consumer because of this all the
oil price the oil price references that
the Bank of Japan is just laying out for
us now?
Actually,
we believe that because, you know, the
government set out this price cap
measure effective today. So, we're going
to see this impact will coming through
for next couple of weeks and then we are
going to see some stabilization of, you
know, gas prices at the station.
However, yes, um but the thing is like
at the rising oil prices is
can
in a way dampen the
the consumer's purchasing power on more
discretionary consume consumption goods
and services. So, in that sense that,
you know, it could
in a way that, you know, what they're
the BOJ's looking for is the more
sustainable
you know, inflation underlying inflation
growth. But, however, this higher oil
prices may dampen the you know, consumer
consumer
consumption recovery.
So, that's why we believe that, you
know, the BOJ may want to see really
this, you know, this trend is transit
transitory or it's going to have a more
prolonged impact on the inflation
expectations. However, like you
mentioned that, you know, it's very rare
that, you know, to see this comment on
their statement. So, which means that,
you know, they really kind of see the
more significant impact of this
situation on the inflation. So, I I can
tell that, you know, they are more
concerned about this near term inflation
hike inflation hike is going to have
boost more inflation inflation
expectation rather than they kind of
worries about the this impact on the
consumption negative impact on the
consumption side.
Minju, thanks so much for joining us. As
we said, the BOJ keeping its rates
unchanged at 0.75% but very much
flagging the risks around the
the impact of what's going on the Middle
East in particular. That was Minju
Kang there joining us from ING Bank, the
senior South Korean Japan economist. And
terminal subscribers can of course turn
to to
live go, that's your function. We've got
a Bank of Japan monetary policy decision
blog [music] underway right now. So, do
check that out. More ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
recapping what has been out in the last
couple of minutes here. That's the BOJ
keeping its overnight call rate at 0.75%
very much expected. I think if there's
anything that's come out and and the
nuance of this so far is just how much
what's happening in Iran is is factoring
into at least their their outlook and
and their ruminations essentially. Which
is rare, right? That they reference
something external so many times which
market reaction not a lot. Cash markets
are shut. You look at futures also not a
lot there. I think it's worth pointing
out this hour with the big news with
reference to Iran was the the post from
the US president which seems to There we
go. Helping de-escalate the situation.
Markets are responding. US future
session highs. We're off lows here in
the Asia Pacific.
Yeah, but I would also caveat that I
guess just with with saying that we have
seen volumes that are looking pretty
thin across the board. And when you
actually drill down into the sectors, I
mean, it's been [music] pretty much
every single one in the red by energy of
course that's continuing to move to the
upside though. As you said, we have seen
I guess
into sentiment as well. But, that's it
for the China show. Insight with
Haslinda Aminas next. Do stay with us.