TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/4/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8955  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-04T17:36:59+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JlK_G5UgZb4
SHA256: 331f18697dfbbffdc0915a6b38324a0ee6061bcac1ec7a71f49d18ddee2f6114

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] positive by a third of 1% with an update
  [2%] above the 2% target. It's that simple
  [2022] that we saw in 2022, which was already
  [2000] supply concerns 2000 to 2000 15 15.
  [2026] races in the 2026 [music] midterm
  [6%] 6% nominal growth, uh stocks should do
  [2020] gain since 2020. We begin this hour with
  [12%] plunging 12% in today's trading
  [7%] following a 7% drop
  [0.4%] positive by 0.4% on the S&amp;P, on the
  [0.4] on the Nasdaq up by 0.4 as we turn to
  [8%] name. Shares were already up 8%
  [15%] moments ago that the 15% global tariff
  [4%] bond market close to 4% [music] on 10s,
  [3%] somewhere between 2 and 1/2 and 3%. Core
  [63000] found 63,000
  [20%] higher by more than 20% [music] while
  [0.5] NASDAQ up by 0.5. The Russell
  [1000] economic driver. Dubai, you had 1,000
  [12000] than 12,000 flights have been canceled
  [0.2] up by 0.2
  [2009] private funds. Since 2009, we've seen
  [0.8] we're down by 0.8. As we see some signs
  [82.65] &gt;&gt; Brent crude this morning, 82.65. WTI
  [75.28] 75.28.
  [27%] then that oil rallies on average 27%.
  [4.3%] know, we're still at 4.3%. I always
  [5.7%] unemployment is 5.7%.
  [70%] and 70% positive stock returns after a
  [9.5%] year and an average of 9.5%.
  [0.9] outperformance there up by 0.9.
  [82.56] morning 82.56, so just off those highs.
  [1.3%] highs. We're up by 1.3% so [music] far.
  [1500] Iran sent over a total of 1,500 missiles
  [1800] 1,800
  [35124] few sessions 35124 [music]
  [8215] [music] back to 8215. As they look
  [7.7%] with Ross Stores shares are surging 7.7%
  [2027] fiscal 2027 that came in well below
  [82.22] higher by 1% 82.22, WTI 74.65.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
I think the price action's reasonable
right now.
these larger narratives.
less America moment.
could fall.
hard time making that next leg higher.
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday looking for stability.
Crude pairing gains following the
biggest two-day rally in almost six
years [music] as President Trump is
attempting to support shipping through
the Strait of Hormuz. And reports
suggest Iran and operatives have reached
out to discuss ending the war. That
report is supporting sentiment this
morning.
here from this report that isn't
verified and to be clear is
backchannel's discussion through another
country's spy agency talking supposedly
with the CIA operatives and people that
know how serious anyone is. The fact
that markets want to rally gives you a
sense of people wanting to buy this dip,
still wanting to hope that this is going
to be temporary. [music] On the flip
side, it highlights all of the thorny
questions like who's in charge in Iran?
Who does President Trump want to be in
charge in Iran? And then how can anyone
rebuild trust in this type of
circumstance?
arguably still escalating. This from the
UAE just moments ago. They intercepted
three missiles
president's trying to support traffic
through the Strait of Hormuz. And this
is what he's trying to do, provide a
framework for insurance and escort ships
through the Strait. In his own words, no
matter what the United States will
ensure the free flow of energy to the
world. [music] The President of the
United States. This is the reaction
we've seen on Wall Street. RBC, we
question how much planning has been done
on the insurance [music] backstop. This
from ING, naval escorts will be sitting
ducks to Iranian attacks. This is easier
said than done. And frankly, getting
people's confidence that they're not
just going to be shot down is different
than saying, "We will escort you."
especially because it hasn't happened
yet. You also are seeing a lot of ships
already getting rerouted, and already
the stockpiles are full, which is a
reason why you're seeing production
being halted in different places.
What President Trump wants to do is to
invoke the US International Development
Finance Corporation [music]
to support some of the insurance to back
these ships. That alone is going to take
time. So, even if there is a mechanism
to do that, there is some friction
between now and when it could actually
get implemented.
level on the S&amp;P 500 this morning.
European equities supportive, but on the
year they're off the highs. Haven't seen
a new high in today on crude for about
24 hours now, off the 85 level we broke
through yesterday. So, some subtle signs
that markets are adjusting and have
completed that adjustment.
this. They want to look through
geopolitics. They always say this is not
going [music] to be something that
determines for a longer term unless it
goes on for a long time. And they talk
about the solid fundamentals. That's the
reason one of pillar of what we get on
Friday, [music] the nonfarm payrolls
report in the United States, could be
really important. Does it confirm that
strength, or does it potentially throw a
thorn in that particular narrative?
from Silk Chen. One, the shock duration,
all on board with that. And two, the
Fed's [music] reaction function. Later
this morning, in 2 hours and 30 minutes
time, we'll catch up with the biggest
dove on the FOMC, Governor Miron. And a
lot of questions with him as to whether
this shock matters to how they set
policy.
Minneapolis Fed, [music] speaking to
Michael McKee yesterday, said it
potentially could take a rate cut off
the table for this year. Talking about
how right now it's too soon to know what
kind of effect this would have on
inflation. Typically, the Fed looks past
these types [music] of shocks. Do we get
the same kind of view from Steven Miron?
75.28.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Sebastian Page of T. Rowe Price. With
global markets whipsawed by the Middle
East, John Leibold of Eurasia Group as
the White House looks to support
shipping. And Paul Sankey of Sankey
Research following oil's biggest two-day
gain since 2020. We begin this hour with
stocks looking to recover as geopolitics
fuels major volatility. Sebastian Page
of T. Rowe Price writing this, "The bear
case is a prolonged war, prolonged
closure of Australian farmers, and
escalating attacks on energy
infrastructure. Our Brent range then
would be 100 to 120." Sebastian joins us
now for more. Seb, welcome to the
program. That's the bear case. What's
the base case?
You know, our research platform's been
on overdrive over the weekend as you can
expect. And I've been reading and
reading the research from our analysts.
And John, I can say there's there is no
base case. It's extremes on both sides.
I hate saying the range of outcomes is
wide because it always sounds like an
out. But we really have two scenarios,
one short, one long.
And the short scenario um you know, I
think The Wall Street Journal reported
that this has been a bit of a race in
terms of the missiles and drones from
Iran and then the defenses from the Gulf
countries that both are running out. And
then you just reported on news that um
you know, there are some I don't know if
you call it rumors or something else,
but there's some news items that are
pointing towards the short scenario. And
then the long scenario is an escalation
and you just outlined it. So, John,
there is no base case. We're looking at
scenarios. That's the only way to manage
this right now between short and long.
And what we want is, you know,
geopolitical hedging in the portfolio,
which we've had for a while. So, we
remain long real asset equities and
including energy, but also metals and
mining and commodity stocks.
confront a shock like this one?
Yeah, you know, that's tough question.
I'm kind of a I'm a bit of a correlation
nerd and one of the studies I've done is
study of a correlation between stocks
and bonds that if I were to boil it down
cuz we talk and I know in surveillance
we talk about this talk about stocks and
bonds and the stock bond correlation.
You can boil it down pretty simply. If
you get an inflation shock, both stocks
and downs can go both both stocks and
bonds can go down together.
If you get a growth shock, then I still
believe and the evidence is there that
treasuries remain a hedge for a growth
shock. Now, these things are always in
grain so it's which factor dominates.
Well, if you look at the current
situation, the inflation risk is clearly
there.
One of our analysts studied, you know,
several oil shocks and he calculated
that peak oil on average occurs 23 days
after the beginning of the attacks or
the military military intervention. And
then that oil rallies on average 27%.
Again, these are averages a mix of
extremes. The range of outcome is wide
as much as I hate saying this. So it's
it's a matter of hedging and you'll see
that in those cases when oil is driving
and when inflation concerns are there
and you saw the one-year inflation swaps
go up around these events. Well, then
bonds are not the same hedge as they
used to be and you have to have
alternative hedges in the portfolios.
Sebastian, how important is nonfarm
payrolls on Friday in light of this
given the fact that a lot of whether
this is an inflationary shock or whether
this is potentially a shock to growth is
predicated on how much momentum there
was heading into this.
Well, I think the geopolitical headlines
will continue to dominate into Friday.
Nonfarm payrolls are always important.
No single data point matters, but we
……（中部抽样）……
still debate employment quite a bit in
you know, um
the potential moves?
overall markets are behaving, Lisa.
Treasuries don't behave as you need them
Some of us are saying, "Look, you know,
after the other, which we ended up
impetus to buy. That said, what you
ending the conflict. After saying for
Yohai, thank you. Thanks for the update.
pressure point for crude.
I think the substance less so, and the
mentioned how most of those top
potential insurance guarantees and a
they have and this is what they're
and drones towards Israel. In the first
uh, the military capabilities just
kind of the initial phase of these
Each of those drones is relatively cheap
Iran. John, just quickly, how did you
take those losses and then
Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth
raised in the New York Times article. I
started. I've got no idea if those
after the off-price retailer delivered a
shares. But more interestingly is this
insurance for ships passing through the
ruling by the Supreme Court. And what
foreign policy is an issue with the
on any given day.
to get this oil flowing, and I think
They'll say a month. Let's see if it
Red Sea, but they have an uncertainty,
allowing them to continue this for
come into play here, how much of a
with the need for the US to produce
physical impact has occurred. So these
Houthi is is so big that solving the
got the whole situation in
there's going to be absolutely That's a
in oil had actually the zeitgeist had
long-term oil price than the spot curve.
higher oil price here long-term. That's
than 12,000 flights have been canceled
that more upward lift on inflation over
Effects of the conflict with Iran
for Fed policymakers. As long as
about the labor market because the
because of the dampening effect of the
for income to continue to grow in real
the AI race. I just wonder if you get
they've been burned in the past, and
of CIBC, Torben L. Marcus of Wolfe
commodity market, [music]
of people have talked about other than
not just about the next few days, this
again through the Strait of Hormuz. We
morning. Good morning to all of you just
coming into the year is risk was
about one more than the other or just
applied too much leverage in certain
a late '26 issue, '27 issue. Because the
we're seeing a shakeout. I don't think
Bloomberg Invest Conference right now
that what you need is a little bit more
you're seeing the Apollos of the worlds
end of the year when you get that email.
for the bonus pool?
wallets to help weather withdrawals from
security official says the duration of
chairman [music]
people are looking for some sort of
through the details and tell us what
But then we heard from Iran's security
there needs to be a lot of issues on the
reiterating some of the tariff increases
I don't think we're that close. I do
judgment call that's up to the
starts to be a situation where the
weather the storm in the same way that
And if you look at the polling,
a headline that I saw earlier on this
think there is some fragmentation as the
want from them are going to be really
person still around? Coming up on the
That report coming from the New York
a conclusion to a conflict look like
think the administration [music]
observation. It's not a judgment about
in about 2 hours away, let's get you
end on Bath &amp; Body Works. This is the
through this and then
out in the very warm room when it comes
interesting given how much of a focus
with people looking at this as a growth
We need to get a lot more data in. Right
cutting rates." They will be conditioned
about inflation, they're looking at that
depends on what happens next. If this
credit stress that's starting to emerge
portfolio of loans. They had some big
There's been over 100 private equity
private fund that is priced once a
the issues with credit two, and now this
this morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Flightradar24 says more than 12,000
Just to build on your comments about
out on the risk curve, who ignore things
all of these these things together,
credit?
even BDCs, where again, their funding is
pike, and the potential for an
short intermediate
interesting one, the interplay between
said it's several days. You get to
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Whac-A-Mole Wednesday, because
conflict. That according to officials
What's the president saying about it?
is of this conflict.
Epic Fury.
us.
It means we will fly
president and yours truly.
fiercer, smarter, and utterly dominant.
for as long as we need to.
The team knew what plays to run because
destroyed, defeated, pick your
Trump
This is what the fake news misses.
Unlike the past where vague red lines
Before we
stop everything.
We salute your courage
with you today and we look forward to
and in the future.
And their one-way attack drone shots are
where, with precision, the greatest
launch timelines, and impose cost every
as well as integrated air defense
we've destroyed more than 20 uh Iranian
to assess our progress against the
capability with precision and restraint.
balance is shifting. We've always got to
I'll take your questions along with the
goals are in terms of not just
how things are developing and what it
Our expectation is that it will be
risks accumulating into an index-level
still think it's a rotation around AI
this, part of the issue that people have
putting in a cut, especially depending
Based on what we saw in 2021 and 2022,
are in the healthcare area. So, uh that
start with the shock over the weekend.
spoke to Lisa and I and said, "These
expansionary as it ever been at the
jobs report raised a question about just
college degrees, when I look at people
expectations, that's the type of thing
accommodative. You believe it's to get
don't view tariffs as driving goods
that would get me to to argue we go
them. You said that you think that the
far there's no evidence of
what's happening.
bet. As a policy maker for you, do you
like I said before, you know, I I it's
that's too restrictive. If you have an
time. But one hypothesis of mine that
……（接近结尾）……
results from Costco. And on Friday, the
payrolls report is just around the
corner. Elsewhere, the US Secretary of
Defense Pete Hoekstra saying armed
forces control Iranian airspace, and the
operation will move to more
precision-guided bombs. Bloomberg's
Taylor Kendall joins us now from the
White House for more. Taylor, welcome to
the program. What did you make of that
briefing 30 minutes ago?
Hey John, I mean at this point it seemed
absolutely clear that US officials are
intent that this military campaign will
be sustained. We heard Secretary Hagel
said really emphasize the idea that the
US and Israel now have what they are
calling uncontested control over
Israel's airspace. I'm sure you picked
up on this quote, but we heard the
secretary say, "Quote, we are just
getting started. We are accelerating,
not decelerating." Now, he did outline
that the US feels it has plenty of
stockpiles to sustain this fight.
Something that President Trump himself
has emphasized as well. Though, we did
hear US officials decline to specify the
quantity saying that that would be an
operational risk. Now, on the
operational front, we also heard, as you
mentioned, that the US says it's going
to go deeper into Iranian territory and
John, that will be the next phase.
Natasha Khandalwal in Washington.
Natasha, appreciate the update. Also
taking place in the nation's capital
today, big tech executives heading to
the White House set to sign pledges to
foot the electricity bill for
energy-hungry data centers. Ed Ludlow
joins us now for more. Ed, they're going
to be on the hook and the pressure is
building.
Yeah, they are. Very simply, this
president wants the hyperscalers to pay
for the energy that they need. Either
they pay for it, they build the supply,
or they bring it through through another
mean by localizing the power supply to
that data center at scale. And if you go
back to last July when the president
launched the sort of
AI action plan, the emphasis was very
much on cutting red tape, deregulation,
expedited permitting, allowing those
names on your screen to move quickly.
But when we came to the State of the
Union address, you know, affordability
is clearly top of mind. And so, there
are a wide range of policy makers,
utilities, the hyperscalers themselves
that argue that if they take on the
upfront cost of modernizing the grid and
spread the investment over the grid, you
could lower the cost of home electricity
prices by a few percentage points per
gigawatt. But it's very hard to believe
in that when you look at the zip codes
on the eastern seaboard where data
center capacity is already expanded and
what prices for everyday Americans have
done in in those areas and
jurisdictions. But that's the the
trade-off here and so the names expected
are the hyperscalers open AI meta XAI
etc.
And you know the president will get them
to sign what is a pledge. It is a pledge
and it's called the rate payer
protection pledge. But then they have to
take that capital expenditure and do
something with it. Just quickly, where's
Anthropic and what's happening?
Yeah, I mean CBS is reporting that the
the the US military apparatus continue
to use their technology over the
weekend. But as it stands the status quo
from the president himself is that there
is a ban on them as a supplier. Um so we
need some certainty from the company on
that. But you know they are taking the
moral high ground here.
And and clearly have a a set of red
lines for what how they feel their
technology should or shouldn't be used.
I'd encourage the audience to go and
read them. Bloomberg reporting on how
open AI has positioned this because Sam
Altman has been communicating to his
employees and publicly about about their
approach here. Ed, looking forward to
the program a little bit later this
morning Bloomberg Technology a few hours
away. Ed Ludlow there. Coming up
tomorrow on this program Noe Dickson of
State Street, Tom Kennedy of JP Morgan,
the Richmond Fed President Tom Barkin
and Michael Gapen of Morgan Stanley.
From New York City this morning. Good
morning. Best of luck for the rest of
the trading day. From New York this was
Bloomberg Surveillance.