TITLE: Rebecca Solnit Says Trump's Strongest Foil Has Been Here All Along | The Interview
CHANNEL: The Interview - New York Times
DURATION_S: 2335  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-07T10:01:13+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sOJ_uaffG5s
SHA256: 143ad6a456961f41d8de76b0f9fd876812ff65683ca42fa93e4ca3f96d044124

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1989] the 1989 revolutions on Tiananmen
  [2000] 2000s with it, and it's been really
  [4%] "The United States is 4% of the
  [2014] Me, which I think was published 2014 um
  [2008] Yeah. No, I wrote the essay in 2008 and
  [2003] and over, which had to happen in 2003
  [2028] nominee in 2028 and it kind of makes my
  [1984] which I loved when it came out in 1984

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
I just get so tired of the idea that
progressives have gone too far. We are
facing um such horrific brutality that
politeness is not really the problem.
living through an era of huge changes,
widespread democratic backsliding,
massive technological [music]
disruption, and the ongoing slow-motion
disaster of the climate crisis.
But what if there was a different and
more hopeful story to tell about all of
this upheaval?
That's the question at the heart of The
Beginning Comes After the End, a new
book by [music] the critically acclaimed
writer Rebecca Solnit.
Solnit takes the long view on progress,
interpretation of change. It's not a
naive book. Instead, it provides [music]
a stabilizing counterweight to the
feeling that the world of late has spun
dangerously off kilter.
Here's my conversation with Rebecca
Solnit.
pleasure for me to speak to you, in part
because A Field Guide to Getting Lost
was a really big book for me, and I read
it not long after I had moved from my
home in Toronto [snorts]
to New York City, and it just it felt
like a a real uh companion at the time.
And all just the way it captured the
feeling of um
or the idea that like displacement
or or and a kind of solitude
can actually be
a positive things. So, thank you for
that. I'm so glad you found it at the
right time for you. And yeah, that book,
we just put out a 20th anniversary
edition, and I got to spend some time
revisiting it and rethinking what the
hell it was I was doing in the early
2000s with it, and it's been really
interesting. I wrote that book, and then
I wrote Hope in the Dark, and I thought
like, am I schizophrenic? These books
are so different. And then I realized
that Hope in the Dark, which is very
political and very upbeat, and A Field
Guide to Getting Lost, which is
introspective and kind of melancholy,
were both about coming to terms with
uncertainty.
But, of course, I also wrote A Field
Guide to Getting Lost,
as I do a lot of my books, to kind of
react against something happening in the
culture. And something that was already
happening with tech was the idea that we
want to live in a safe, circumscribed,
known world. We don't want to leave the
house without knowing exactly where
we're going. This sense that we need to
be in control, that we need to know
everything. And of course, we're never
completely in control, and we never
completely know everything. So,
how do we look at it in a way that lets
us accept it and maybe work with it
instead of deny it or work against it?
What in the culture would you say your
new book is reacting against? Really, a
kind of cultural amnesia. I think of
time
in increments of a year, 5 years, 50
years, centuries.
And across that time span, you can
really see how profoundly the world has
changed and is changing. You can see
that these good things and, you know,
feminism, civil rights movements,
environmental awareness, indigenous
resurgences have had a profound impact.
So often, people seem to think in these
[snorts] very short-term intervals in
which they either think nothing has
changed or they just see the last bad
thing that happened and think we're
losing. So, context is everything. And I
often feel that a lot of
pessimism, despair, doomerism comes from
not knowledge about the future, even
though they think they're thinking about
the future, but from lack of knowledge
about the past. Despair and amnesia go
hand in hand, and so do hope and memory,
I think in many cases.
So, when when people are are reading the
news or or thinking about changes from
day to day or month to month or even
year to year and it's making them feel
like they're just barreling into a grim
dystopian future.
What what else should they be thinking
about or what additional context should
they have uh that would help them
complete the picture and and and show
them that there you know, there are
these deeper currents of positive
change. I think even the right tells us
something if we listen very carefully to
what they're saying, something very
encouraging. They tell us
you all are very powerful. You've
changed the world profoundly. All these
things that are often treated
separately, feminism, queer rights,
environmental and climate action,
ideas of equality, etc. are actually all
connected. So, they're basically telling
us we're incredibly successful,
which is the good news. The bad news is
they hate it and they want to change it
all back. So much of what we're seeing
with Trumpism,
with the far-right resurgence or surge
right now
is a fury at how the world has been
changing a desire to change it back, to
put women back, you know, kind of
barefoot, pregnant, and in the kitchen,
to recreate racial hierarchies that have
been dismantled to some extent, to you
know, impose mandatory Christianity,
mandatory um heterosexuality, to punish
difference, and to deregulate protecting
the environment, for which you also have
to pretend that there are no
consequences to destroying the climate,
uh polluting rivers,
um destroying the natural world, etc.
and pretend that we're not connected,
and it's an anti-connection ideology.
And so, there is a backlash. It is
significant,
but it is not comprehensive or her
I was on book tour last year in Europe
and the Europeans kind of astounded me
by being like, "Oh, Roe v. Wade was
overturned. Doesn't that mean feminism
has failed?" And I was like,
"The United States is 4% of the
population. Meanwhile, all these
Catholic countries, Argentina, Mexico,
Ireland, and Spain have greatly expanded
reproductive rights and abortion
access."
Wade just took away the national
protection, a lot of blue states
strengthened it. You know, so it's
really how you tell the story and
there's a lot of different ways to tell
it.
So, I always want to give people these
broader perspectives, these deeper
perspectives, this equipment for
understanding change
in ways that empowers them to to see it,
to understand it, and to participate in
it in ways I think you can't with the
short-term perspectives.
Do
Do you think progressive change is
inevitable?
I think nothing is inevitable,
but I do think the word evitable should
be used if we're going to use
inevitable.
In some ways, everything is evitable.
We're deciding in the present what the
future will be and I think there's a lot
of strengths and tendencies, but
exist really dismantles a lot of
defeatism, despair, doomerism,
cynicism,
which often pretend to know what the
future can and can't be as a way of
pretending to a power they don't really
have while abandoning the power we
really do have, which is to make
a future that doesn't exist exist yet in
the present. And I've spent my life
listening to people talk about what can
and can't happen and usually not coming
back to apologize when it turns out that
actually Donald Trump can be elected,
same-sex marriage is going to pass, we
are going to stop the Keystone pipeline.
And sometimes when I want to be kind of
an I'm like, "Wow, do you bet
on the horses cuz you seem to be really
good at knowing the future." You know, I
was I was just reading an essay by this
writer named George Scialabba. I think
he's one of the best political writers
in in America, but he he in this essay
was pointing out that
you know, there there can be a kind of
value in
certain forms of social conservatism
that um
you know, sort of maintaining certain
cultural or religious traditions. You
know, it helps with social stability. It
helps with sort of inculcating
large-scale trust
among groups of people.
But the problem he in this essay was
pointing out is when those traditions
are based in illusions. It's like an
illusion could be the the authority of
white men or that a certain kind of
Christian morality is the only valid
kind of morality or that
you know, one's country can do no wrong.
But my question is how how do we promote
stability and solidarity
in the absence of the old illusions?
I think that there are some really deep
cultural traditions that are worth
keeping, some of which are
……（中部抽样）……
older than Christianity and
now is the recovery of some of the
the best future we aim for is built by
inevitable or natural or the only way
the Americas and Asian and African
just seem to have a lot more gender
and hope for a kind of stability and a
why is it that
of the the retrogressive aspects of the
positive context. You know, it's like
uh than to the uh the place where
I'm getting what I'm getting out of this
and I am, you know, I remain hopeful and
powerless, that there's nothing we can
that you're addressing is
wrong, and then we have to address it.
jungle and the flowers are beautiful,
but the tiger will. You've got to keep
right are these stories of incremental
energy revolution at the turn of the
fossil fuel, which is part of why so
which is a good thing.
these incredibly cheap, incredibly
renewables, have more energy than we
people comprehend it because
I need to reveal my party pooper
there's a comfort in knowing that
States is producing it's pumping more
targets, you know, we're going to blow
temperature, what those effects will be
our shared energy future is, it can feel
movement.
comfort, I am not comfortable with where
The wonder and horror
action. They want to see their
more climate-friendly world, whether
agriculture, etc.
political, and a minority
and governmental figures who either are
And so the wonder and horror exist side
thrilled by all the things that are
aren't.
do is worth doing, every tenth of a
is
want people to do is to hold both truths
matters. It's not too late. Of course
everything and we don't have to
much, but
next. And I was so shaped by
although it may have sown some seeds, we
media in the English-speaking world in
Czechoslovakia,
thought it was going to be chaos, which,
would topple totalitarianism
non-violently almost all at once in
was inconceivable to the people who did
because pretending you do know when you
wish a few more people would apologize
or were inevitable that you know, that
counter-narratives
counter-narratives of the last few
the resistance or um
And I would like to hear your
uh against Trump and Trumpism have maybe
you know, calling him in the movement
sexist, racist uh
terms are are legitimately applicable
alienated people who
think there have been any sort of
I mean, they are racist, they are
and tiptoeing around it protects them
I just get so tired of the idea that
deserves human rights when people are
horrific brutality
into this situation in part by a lot of
uh than [snorts] call things by their
to use extreme language to describe it,
Uh there's a wonderful historian,
good. That's when you have clarity.
I you do not
get it by being strong.
um
you you got a lot of attention for your
Yes. adapted from uh an essay you wrote
popularize the term mansplaining, even
there anything about that book or that
along the path to to virality?
going to write an essay called Men
doing as a writer in terms of you don't
one of the glories of it. You know, at
a bunch of interesting ways. But what I
and over, which had to happen in 2003
the swanky party full of swanky people
And you know, not my scene.
said, "So, I hear you've read I hear
recent and it "What are they about?" He
whose revolutionary technologies
the very important Muybridge book that
It's also should be a horrifying
that book is about a woman running
saying that her husband is trying to
my boyfriend in my 20s,
upper middle class nuclear physicist
And men kill their wives all the time
not being believed whether they say that
they say a man's trying to kill them and
So I felt that the enormity of the
um enjoyed telling that opening anecdote
because that anecdote really kind of got
hold the whole thing rather than that
the possible limits of storytelling
transformative power of storytelling is
again to be a a David Downer
a span of time and say hey, you know,
storytelling, powerful storytelling and
you know, uh police abuse or or um
at the same time I think
being awash in all this powerful
issues that necessitate that that
in some cases are perhaps getting worse.
you know, is
strategies and tactics?
beings are and we are storytelling
stories can be destruct- destructive,
this period a while back when people
stories to justify white supremacy,
has its stories, which um the fact that
stories can be destructive. A lot of
the left I think is a lot of different
sectarianism, grievance,
this and everyone in this category is
categories are leaky and often see
understandings. [music] And um
all our work for us is itself a bad
beginning. When you change the story,
everything else.
today. I appreciate it.
twice. After my first conversation with
I wanted [music] to revisit the topic
again.
said to you earlier that I I've been
green energy transition and how how
definitively
sort of pessimistically said did some
was thinking about that. I was like,
transition is is to be encouraged and
prevent really matters. I think I think
talking about that was
climate crisis.
crisis in the in the first place. So, I
didn't want to come off like, you know,
Well, thank you. I figured you were just
thing.
people to go for nuance and shades of
complexities.
there's a lot to mourn and those things
who need those all or nothing stories.
then surely you just said we're winning
and exhilarated about climate at the
with a lot of pushback including from
Well, whether it's to do with
degradation of of people, it really
real
Trumpism. And you know, I don't know
trying to position himself as that
whatever reason
identify themself. Why do you think that
get lone superhero movies over and over
superpowers ability to inflict and
through collective effort. It brings up
died a few years ago, which is the next
practitioners. So the idea that we don't
community is the next hero. And that's
has been and always will be civil
wine moms and I read two things
Trump resistance.
female as in hysterical, overwrought,
swipes at wine moms. And um you know, a
the middle of the night, is done by nice
and and a lot of the left wants social
something like that. And so the fact
changing the world
But
don't respect as wind socks. I think a
when Obama was president and being
……（接近结尾）……
that movie
without even the language or the space
in which to feel that that stuff wasn't
okay. Because if it wasn't okay, you
were just at odds with the world. You
You know, there's kind of no place to go
with it. So, I probably just laughed
along. So, yeah, I think about, you
know, I have changed so much and my
change isn't really separate from
the social change. And And so many ways,
we've all been re-educated around so
many or educated around so many things.
Can I just ask, I'm I'm a
big Prince fan and I think there uh
there's been stuff that's come out since
he
uh died
about his treatment of women and and
also like you're suggesting
the the culture has moved in certain
ways that
cast his attitude towards women or what
seems like his attitude towards women
was in a different light. And how do you
think differently about the art of of
someone like that now?
I know really depends.
I I don't think there's a man who made
art before, if I had a wristwatch I'd
check it, you know, about 10 minutes ago
who was not
you go back a certain amount of time and
I don't know. I had a wonderful English
professor, Dr. Pellin, he used to say,
but fortunately Shakespeare hadn't read
Freud.
You know, that there is a way in which
we can't ask
people from long ago to have our values.
There's historians call it presentism.
It depends, and I think there's some
people who weren't better than their
times. Um, there were some people who
were, but some of that stuff, you know,
it's just was kind of ugly then and is
really ugly now. And it came up somehow
in conversation. I think cuz Woody Allen
is all over the Epstein papers as a good
buddy of Epstein's. The last Woody Allen
movie I saw was Manhattan. I'm exactly
the same age as the 17-year-old or
16-year-old who played his love
interest, the middle-aged slob guy's
love interest in the movie. And it
creeped me out. I knew those kind of
guys in the late '70s and they were
creepy and I was repelled and I've never
seen a Woody Allen movie since.
I I want to read a line from your
memoir, Recollections of My
Nonexistence, and
then ask you about it. So, the line is,
"Sometimes now I envy those people who
are at the beginning of the long road of
the lives they'll make, who still have
so many decisions ahead as the road
forks and forks again.
You're no longer at the beginning of the
long road of your life.
Yeah.
Can you see a an exciting or or
pivotal or or momentous
decision coming?
Other than refusing to ever do another
book tour now and uh
you know
and I'm pretty happy with the path I'm
on and really I grew up with people
telling me to have low expectations for
myself.
Um my mom told me point-blank that my
writing was just a hobby when I was in
my mid-20s and that I should just glom
onto my lovely successful boyfriend
forever who I was in the process of
leaving.
My father told me the only advice he
ever gave me I think was I should be a
business major cuz I never make a living
in the humanities.
the trajectory I did and so I'm kind of
thrilled with it but you always have a
little nostalgia.
Lots of points where you make decisions
and just that so many of them are ahead
of you I think is both
hugely burdensome and also really
exciting for young people. I watch them
decide
who to marry, whether to have a start a
family and how, choose their profession,
choose their major in college. I kind of
hate the way people treat your later
teens and your 20s as though it's all
light and fluffy when
it's tremendously weighted because
you're making decisions, decisions about
who are you, who are your people, what
is your life going to be about and even
though they're changeable they're often
permanent decisions. You're hitting so
many forks in the road and they're such
much for taking all the time to speak
with me. I I really enjoyed it and um I
appreciate that you did it. Absolute
pleasure, David. Take care.
Marchese. And we're the hosts of The
Interview, an audio and video podcast
week we interview fascinating and
influential people from all walks of
life. Subscribe to our YouTube channel
so you'll [music] never miss an episode.