TITLE: The Republican Identity Crisis Over the Iran War
CHANNEL: The Daily
DURATION_S: 1754  DENSITY: brief  REQ summary=2 core=3
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-23T14:49:46+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=24UV7imfIRk
SHA256: f54f7e6a44672f417eab46e255e94e260d479b94d9779ee25cd8dac7e7d01def

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2024] something he said in 2024. He was not
  [2015] primary debate in November of 2015.
  [2016] much he referred to it in that 2016
  [2020] term in January 2020 when he ordered
  [2026] 2026, shut it down.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
From The New York Times, I'm Natalie
Kitroeff. This is The Daily.
From the moment President Trump barreled
into American politics, one of his
central messages that resonated most
with voters was his promise to keep the
country out of endless wars.
But now, as the war in Iran enters its
fourth week, leading figures on the
right are questioning whether Trump may
have gotten the US into exactly the sort
of complex and costly conflict he railed
against for so long.
Today, we talked to my colleague Robert
Draper about Trump's political evolution
on the question of war and the identity
crisis it's caused for the Republican
Party.
It's Monday, March 23rd.
Okay, Robert, you cover the right and
you functioned for us here at The Daily
as our guide, really, to all the
complexities of Trump and his party. And
right now seems to be a moment of
reckoning within that exact group over
the war in Iran. Specifically, the
justification for it and whether Trump
is explicitly violating a pact that he
made with his base of not starting
another war.
So, what is the level of tension that
you're seeing right now inside the MAGA
movement?
are still steadfast in their support for
what the administration is doing. There
are an awful lot of people, however, and
I'm talking not only about the
right-wing influencer ecosystem, but
also all the way down to voters who are
saying, is this what we voted for? We
thought no wars. We thought America
first. What are we doing over there?
What's this about $200 billion that
Trump now wants from Congress to
appropriate? Where was $200 billion when
I wanted to buy a home?
problematic matter for the Trump
administration.
anger, right?
to square what is happening in Iran with
what Trump said on the campaign trail
and what Americans face as domestic
challenges.
there. What's the origin of that
disconnect, that disbelief?
was the fourth Republican presidential
primary debate in November of 2015.
after spending $2 trillion,
thousands of lives, wounded warriors all
over the place who I love. Okay, all
over. We have nothing.
explicitly said that the Iraq war was no
one's idea of a success, but instead was
a tragic waste of American blood and
treasure.
continue to be the policeman of the
world. We owe $19 trillion.
We have a country that's going to hell.
candidates who had basically repeated
Republican orthodoxy about the Iraq war.
absolutely wrong on this. We're not
going to be the world's policeman, but
we sure as heck better be the world's
leader.
about how remarkable it was to hear
Trump say this? I mean, this was a break
from the orthodoxy of the Republican
Party for decades, right?
It was understood that thou not speak
ill of a Republican president, George W.
Bush. And so for an office seeker, a
Republican office seeker, to stand up
and say that this war was just an
unambiguous screw-up, and you're never
going to see me do this kind of thing,
was really singular and I think
memorable to voters throughout the
campaign.
of course willing to say at that point,
but not Republicans.
that, really I think, you know, opened
Republican voters up to the notion that,
you know, we don't have to
embrace a militaristic viewpoint the way
hawks on our side of the aisle are
constantly urging us to, particularly
when we have seen what it's done to a
whole generation of Americans.
and biggest example of Trump's saying
the thing that everyone thought but was
too afraid to say, and it really
obviously tapped into something.
that
America's leaders were not to be trusted
and he was drawing a clear distinction
between what he was saying about our
troops and what he was saying about our
leadership. He was saying, "I love the
troops.
veterans. They've been so mistreated.
And they've been mistreated by these
really, really stupid leaders who, you
know, can barely organize a one-car
funeral, much less prosecute a war
overseas."
that message, both its resonance and how
much he referred to it in that 2016
campaign, I think it seemed to a lot of
people that this was the foundational
principle of America First. Along with
tariffs and immigration, this
non-interventionism
was core to what Trump stood for, to
what he was going to do.
very literal interpretation of America
first, which is we look inward. We take
care of people at home and in the
meantime, consider the outside world
only when it suits us, but unless and
until that happens, we take care of our
folks at home.
Trump has been very consistent with this
messaging throughout his political
career. It wasn't just in his first
campaign, right? I mean, this was
something he said in 2024. He was not
going to start any wars, he was going to
stop them.
this was a winning message, that people
really responded to it.
president in the last 84 years that
didn't start a war. Remember crooked
Hillary?
could target his political opponent as
the person who will prosecute endless
wars. He said that about Hillary
Clinton. He later said it about Kamala
Harris. He said that she would get us
into a war with Iran.
guaranteed because she is too grossly
incompetent to do the job. She's not
going to be able to
campaign, was saying, "I'm the peace
president."
going to keep us out of wars."
administration. I didn't take us to war
in my first term, I won't take us to war
in my second term. You can count on it.
But the notion that Trump was the peace
president, that we inferred that from
the things that he had said about the
Iraq war,
I think proved to be really misguided. I
think that it was something that we
fundamentally misunderstood about Trump
and what you would call his ideology.
fall into the trap of assuming
that when Trump is espousing something,
that it is an ideology. When the belief,
in fact, that he is espousing is
self-belief. In other words, that he's
not saying, "Here is a core principle of
what we believe in." Instead, he's
saying,
"Other people are doing it stupid. I'm
going to do it smart." And in fact, he
was actually saying that in real time
during that presidential debate that I
referenced earlier.
you know, "Terrible war, tragic." And
then he says right after that,
me.
We should have kept the oil.
we should have done. We should have
taken the oil. And then, in fact, the
previous debate, he had actually said,
into Iraq, and I fought it because
military. So, there he was, explicitly
saying, "I'm not an anti-war president.
I'm a smart-war president is what I am."
genuine, heartfelt rejection of foreign
intervention, of using military power
abroad. That we might have interpreted
it that way, but that wasn't necessarily
what we were actually seeing.
winning message, then he began to say
things that I think were very much
against his core belief. He began to
say, "I'm the peace president. I'll
never start wars or anything like that."
But in fact, his core principle was, "I
believe in myself, and I believe in
leverage, and I believe in the assertion
of power. And in fact, I'm even a
militaristic person, but you have to
know when to use the military. You have
to know how to use strength. You have to
know, in essence, how to win." And if
there's any ideology to Trump beyond
self-belief, it's winning.
Now,
this sounds like is a kind of conflict,
two points that are in diametric
opposition to each other, that Trump is
on the one hand someone saying no
endless wars,
but on the other hand saying I'm a
militaristic person,
but whatever conflict those two notions
may have presented did not yet reveal
themselves in his first term and only
……（中部抽样）……
came to the surface recently.
So, let's talk about this moment that
we're in right now when the conflict
between these different worldviews on
the question of foreign wars is now
breaking out into the open. When did we
first start to see this, as you said,
really come to the surface?
interventionist at the end of his first
term in January 2020 when he ordered
drone strikes to kill the head of Iran's
Quds Force, Qassem Soleimani. And for
that matter, we also saw him acquiesce
to the generals and keep troops in
Afghanistan, but Trump the
interventionist really came on full
display this term beginning with June of
last year when he ordered the bombing of
Iranian nuclear sites.
Carlson, Charlie Kirk, Steve Bannon,
each of whom went into the Oval Office
to implore Trump not to do this, afraid
that this could lead to a protracted
military conflict in the Middle East.
But then, once the bombing occurred,
there was an about-face by
the doubters on the right, Charlie the
and the others, saying in effect, what
were we thinking? This happened quickly,
this happened successfully, nothing bad
happened along the way, and we should
have known, in Trump we trust.
course these foreign interventions
continue. Walk me through what they made
of the US intervening in Venezuela
earlier this year.
so quickly. While some people had
experienced queasiness about it,
basically the Maduro expedition kind of
fell under the category of F around and
find out.
towards the United States and paid the
price for it. And once again, without us
seeming to suffer any sorts of negative
consequences. If anything, it appeared
that the new regime in Venezuela was
going to be getting the message that,
you know, we're very, very interested in
those oil reserves you have. And if you
play ball with us, if you're on our
side, you'll be rewarded. If you're not,
well, you see what happened to the last
guy. And so, it looked like there was
really nothing to argue about.
thing that he said in the past he wanted
to do in Iraq, take the oil. I mean,
here he's making good on some version of
that promise.
Natalie, also is a reflection of what he
had been doing at home, right? I mean,
so from the beginning of his second
term, he was bringing his might down on
universities, on media conglomerates, on
large American law firms that he
believed were adversarial to him. He was
putting the muscle to them and forcing
them to make concessions. That in
essence was what he was doing to
Venezuela. He has as leverage the
greatest military and economic force in
world history, and he is deploying that
to gain concessions both abroad and at
home. This to Trump is the way a smart,
powerful person exercises their
leverage.
bombs, the Venezuela action, those
really prove Trump's theory. Basically,
strength equals power. You can achieve
goals essentially by using that on the
global stage and not necessarily
suffering big political consequences for
doing so.
And then we get to the current conflict
in Iran.
is in essence applying what he did in
Venezuela and what he'd done the
previous June in Iran
to a far more audacious notion, which is
to attempt to decapitate the regime of a
very powerful nation in the Middle East
that had been adversarial to America for
a very long time. To do this and once
again to suffer no negative
consequences. It's a real, real
high-wire act. So, to apply all of that
to not just a series of structures in
Iran, but to human leadership, to this
theocracy there, is a very, very
different game altogether.
fourth week of this war and learning
just how difficult this is turning out
to be for Trump. He can't just do what
he did to universities to the government
of Iran.
University, is not Paul Weiss law firm.
That it is a big nation that is
smack-dab in the middle of an extremely
complicated region. And it is a hornet's
nest that we have understood never to
kick. And Trump in doing what he did,
it's as if he forgot the history lesson
that citizen Trump, candidate Trump, was
giving on the debate stage 11 years
earlier.
know, how do people see this
increasingly complex war and Trump's
efforts to justify it?
about. There has been this clear
fracture in the right-wing media
ecosystem.
the civilized world and ending that is a
very worthy goal, which I think is what
the president is shooting for, whether
it means a very weakened
and Trump loyalists continue to support
everything that Trump is doing.
look, I'm not against bombing Iran. I
personally
dealing with. That regime needs to be
eliminated.
been fans of Trump, close to Trump, say
in essence, this is a big mistake.
having this war is because Israel wants
it. This is their last chance, they
believe.
in Iran is not in our interest at all.
he ran on.
betrayed, right? He ran on no more wars.
for.
been so tense already. And to add this
to the pile, it genuinely feels like
there's a real possibility that we might
be entering World War III.
the war, have found themselves in a kind
of uncomfortable alignment with people
they really didn't want to align
themselves with.
engaged in treachery with his Zionist
cabal. We are
Candace Owens
than cover up the Epstein files,
embezzle money through government
contracts, and bring us to war for
Israel? This administration
do, vote for Democrats. Shut it down. In
2026, shut it down.
this debate, kind of supporting Trump,
supporting the war. And on the other, a
group of influencers who have often been
very much against Israel and its
influence in this administration. So,
just explain that. How does Israel fit
into the debate that you're seeing right
now on the right?
been the answer when those questions are
posed to Tucker Carlson and to Candace
Owens. They see Israel really behind
every imagined conflict or conspiracy.
Some of it has been a biting
anti-Semitic sentiment, and some of it
also has been, I think, a new-found view
that why are we engaged in a conflict in
the Middle East where we can see the
Israeli government and Bibi Netanyahu in
particular are only too pleased to have
us there. Why do they have so much
……（接近结尾）……
Israel was going to do it if we didn't."
And then having to walk it back in
essence and say, "No, no, no. I mean,
that's I
that's not what I was trying to say at
all." That he recognizes that, you know,
this war is going to be a difficult
thing to explain to voters. And a
difficult thing to describe as a
success.
from view is the Vice President, the
seeming heir apparent to Trump, J.D.
Vance, who clearly is not the
cheerleader in the way that Rubio is.
suggesting that Vance pushed back
against this Iran plan, but apparently
not that much because the Times reported
that he also said, "Well, if you're
going to do it, go big."
position of independence in doing that,
and biding his time basically, allowing
himself
either to pivot into like totally
supporting a war just as descending, or
being the guy who was exercising notes
of concern and caution as the war
protracts itself.
singling out, Vance, the Vice President,
the representative of this isolationist
wing, and Rubio, who represents the more
old school neo-conservative side of this
party, the difficulty is that the
conflict is playing out in real time,
and in many ways their futures, their
political futures, and the futures of
the party kind of hinge on it.
trying to preserve their options. They
in essence have their feet on both sides
of the line, and in doing that, I mean,
what they're really doing nationally is
personifying
this moment of truth that has arrived
for the Republican Party. It's kind of
been sitting there for a while,
actually, about, you know, just what
they stand for. There was a bumper
sticker, America first, which could be
taken literally as stay out of other
countries. Just do stuff at home. And
now it's a question of just what is
America's role in the world, and nobody
really wants to have that conversation.
It's a complicated one. It's a difficult
one to sell to voters, but now it feels
like the Republican Party almost has no
choice but to confront it.
As they try to explain to their voters,
to Americans, what's this war about? Why
are we doing this? How is it of value to
Americans considering so many challenges
that we have domestically? It's feels
like a moment where an explanation of
what our role in the world is, and when
we should insert ourselves into
complicated regions like the Middle
East, it's a dialogue begging to be had
that has been avoided for years, which
now it feels like can't be avoided much
longer.
Over the weekend, President Trump said
that if the Strait of Hormuz, the vital
oil shipping route that Iran is
blocking, wasn't fully opened by Monday
night, the US would, quote, obliterate
Iranian power plants.
Iran said it would retaliate against
such strikes by targeting infrastructure
used by Israel, the US, and American
allies, including water desalination
plants that are a lifeline for the
entire region.
In another sign of how desperate the
Trump administration is to get control
of the global energy crisis spurred by
the war, the US temporarily lifted
sanctions on some Iranian oil on Friday,
though it's unclear how much that move
will affect global oil prices.
And Robert Mueller, the former head of
the FBI who became a political target of
President Trump, died on Friday at the
age of 81.
On learning of Mueller's death, Trump
said in a social media post, "Good. I'm
glad he's dead. He can no longer hurt
innocent people."
As special counsel investigating
Russia's attack on the 2016 presidential
election, Mueller concluded that Russia
had carried out a systematic effort to
interfere in that election, and that the
Trump campaign expected it would benefit
electorally from that interference. But
the investigation didn't find evidence
that the Trump campaign had conspired
with Russia. And ultimately, Mueller
concluded that he could neither absolve
nor accuse President Trump of any crime.
Today's episode was produced by Ricky
Nevaetsky, Muj Saidy, Mary Wilson, and
Jessica Chung. It was edited by Paige
Cowart and Rob Zipko, and contains music
by Rowan Nemirow. Our theme music is by
Wonderly. This episode was engineered by
Chris Wood.
That's it for The Daily. I'm Natalie
Kitroeff. See you tomorrow.