TITLE: Lots More on the Seaborne Chaos Around the Strait of Hormuz | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 1827  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-06T14:47:15+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ONCNExQKVo
SHA256: c522ad7a93dcd4980c85c99b18c54d053dfbc34a37b4e2e3910f94904bef8527

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [0055%] .0055%
  [1.5%] offers coming anywhere from .5 to 1.5%.
  [1980] it, the 1980s when we reflagged tankers
  [1800] vessel, I think it was 1,800 TEUs, 20-ft
  [2026] on 2026 barge barge contracts for

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
There's a little bit of debate over
Anton's own naval experience, but we can
get into that. But Anton, you have some
naval experience, sort of. Are you
teeing it up for Margo to make fun of me
now because I was just a reservist? So I
fully embrace the fact that I do not
have grand military experience, okay? I
served, I was in the reserves, I put on
the uniform, I wish it could still fit,
but
I played tennis at Rota, Spain, you
know, to on a NATO exercise. I'll have
you know, Tracy. It was a
It was a NATO military exercise and I
don't think I was at All right. Your
exercise was tennis.
de la Frontera was fantastic for wine
and sherry, so you know.
utility maximizer. Black gold.
decided I'm going to base my entire
personality going forward on campaigning
for a strategic pork reserve in the US.
Skulls Unlimited.
the AI will do a really good job of
making the Odd Lots podcast.
day that person will have the mandate of
heaven. We do have the perfect guest.
You're listening [music] to Lots More,
where we catch up with friends about
what's going on right now. Because even
when Odd Lots is over, there's always
Lots More. And we really do have the
perfect guest. [music]
I feel a little bit stupid.
you're just just now for the first time?
If No, I'm just kidding.
war with Iran happened on the weekend
and is still happening. And on Monday I
woke up and I was thinking about energy
markets and you know, geopolitics in the
Middle East. And I was trying to think
of someone who would be really good to
talk about shipping.
And I'm embarrassed to say it took me a
full 24 hours to remember that we
actually have marine chaos experts
basically on speed dial at the moment.
experiencing marine chaos, obviously.
We're recording this March 4th.
Yesterday, Trump posted on Truth Social
talking about the US actually playing a
role as sort of an insurer of last
resort. Because one of the things that
we've been seeing is like setting aside
the sort of logistical ability to get
goods out of the region, get whatever
out of the region. There's obviously the
question of can you get insurance? And
we know that, you know, prices are
soaring, etc. You know, insurance costs
getting too high could end trade flows
regardless of the actual logistics on
the ground and so forth. Well, not just
insurance premiums getting too high, but
insurance being pulled all together.
you know, they are their own entity
that's sort of like separate from
national, you know, there's nations and
then there's insurers and they have
quite a bit of say over what moves and
when and where. Well, all of this just
confirms my long-running suspicion, as
you know, that insurers actually control
the world in a very under-appreciated
way. We should talk to We need to insert
like a sound effect here. Speed dial our
marine chaos experts. They are, of
course, Margo Brock and Anton Posner.
They're the founders of Mercury Group,
which specializes in dry cargo and
global freight logistics. So, really the
perfect people to talk to about this
moment. Let's just talk about what
you're seeing right now with the Strait
of Hormuz. You have a lot of clients who
I assume have some presence there.
Again, you guys sort of specialize in
dry bulk, dry cargo, but you have a good
handle on what's going on. What are you
seeing and witnessing and living through
at the moment?
Sure. Yeah, it's always great for us to
be on during marine chaos time, right?
As I mentioned to Tracy yesterday, I
think that's going to be new business
cards for Margo and I. We're the chaos
expert. So, in addition, certainly, to
kick things off, right? In addition to
everyone knows oil and gas are flowing
through Strait of Hormuz in Persian
Gulf, which is the always the headline
commodity sector that that everyone
talks about in the region. You also have
things like outbound fertilizers coming
out of the region. You have outbound
aluminum being produced by Emirates
Global Aluminum and Qatalum and Alba
Aluminum Bahrain. You have inbound raw
materials for the aluminum production,
alumina that goes into aluminum
production known that needs to flow in.
You have containerized goods, right? You
have inbound grains going into the
Persian Gulf. So, there's a lot more
than just oil and gas that's affected
when there's problem in the region.
Right now, we're seeing in our world
that's heavy on metals, of course, is
being affected by the inability for Gulf
aluminum producers to be able to ship
aluminum out and moving out of the Gulf.
So, that's already created a spike in
global aluminum markets and there need
there's a shift at the moment going on.
I think Emirates Global Aluminum was the
one that said they're going to start
fulfilling orders with aluminum stock
piles that they have in other parts of
the world. So, we're starting to see an
effect on the markets that we're
involved in. Of course,
overall, diesel in the United States
jumped significantly over the past
couple of days. So, we're going to see
that trickle-down effect coming into the
world of our inland logistics in North
America, barge freight on the river
system, truck freight, rail freight,
where we're going to start seeing
potentially start seeing fuel surcharge
clauses kick into effect as diesel
starts to move up.
And then, so talk to us about the
insurance components cuz there is the
Yeah, there's the sort of reality of
moving goods, and then there's the
question of can you get these shipments
insured?
insurance where like you have an a war
risk insurance policy and then something
happens and the insurers are like
actually we're going to cancel all the
war risk insurance.
Yeah.
Well, war risk is an interesting
component of your policy because
depending upon where the policy is
written and what the custom is if it's a
London policy, a US policy,
you'll have different terms within your
policy, but they all come with a short
cancellation notice period on
specifically the war risk component. And
that cancellation term can be anywhere
from say two to seven days. I've heard
depending upon whether it's written on
London or a US policy or so forth.
And that's what's happened. Everyone put
out the notice immediately upon the war
and now this week is when all those
cancellation dates are hitting. So,
after that cancellation date, you could
rebuy war risk.
But now you're going to buy at a
significantly increased premium. So,
what I'm being told is the current
market is that where traditionally
your premium which is assessed on the
value, the declared value of your goods.
That's what we're insuring against. So,
your policy in total inclusive of your
war risk maybe might be something around
.0055%
of value. Now to carve out just the
add-on for war risk, they're seeing
offers coming anywhere from .5 to 1.5%.
Yeah, so that's if you choose to have
war risk and then it you know, that will
push back into the rest of the
conversation that says
what ships are actually transiting in
war risk areas at this point because
we're seeing the pivot. We're seeing and
we're seeing that that market dropping
off very steeply right now.
to flow
logically or economically at these new
levels? What is the pivot? Yeah. So Joe,
I think a good answer to that question
right off the bat is let's take the
cargoes that have no choice. Okay.
has a client and a ship currently
loading in Saudi Arabia in the Gulf
loading dry bulk cargo. The ship's in
port. It's loading. The ship's P&amp;I club,
the insurance group that insures the
ship has issued a notification of the
cancellation. On the ship's The ship
side insurance, right? You've got two
sides. You have the cargo insurance
Margo was talking about in some detail
and then there's also the insurance on
the ship. Right. So that ship is
……（中部抽样）……
loading. It's received the notice that
their ship's P&amp;I
canceled. They're going to need to renew
has to eventually sail at some point,
there's no choice but to re-up under the
already in the Gulf. It's already loaded
interest, the shipper who owns the dry
to have all risk cargo
ship owner also needs to renew their P&amp;I
choice. Ship's there. So now it's going
when catching up with our our ocean
who who's going to pay. Yeah. Uh Margo
Maritime College of maritime law and
always always said, "Everything we're
into the category of who pays, right?
Weiss was famous for that that who pays
these situations. So, just on this
simply, I guess, the ecosystem of
that, you know, you hear about things
the reinsurers, and there seem to be all
insurer for the cargo, there's the
And then there's this question of who's
have, I guess, a chain that exists
ship owners, the end buyers of the
very simply for us?
And of course, we're freight people, not
without mentioning names, and I'm
discussed yesterday working on
the world leading P&amp;I clubs to
so the pressure's the [laughter]
gender or a name or anything that gives
see. Fingers crossed that
You've already uh you've already
Sorry, it's a tangent. I was just
it's very you know, the English doesn't
of ships. Anyway, sorry, keep going.
it to break it down very simply, right?
indemnity insurance, hull insurance,
its engines and so forth. The all of the
forth. That's what the ship owner
carriage, whether it's a charter party
lading, that has a limitation of
contract of carriage. US law is covered
COGSA, which typically carries a $500
liability. So, the ship owner is only
the goods that the shipper is carrying
cargo owner side, and the cargo owner,
certain limitation of liability, the
guidance, will go will get all risks
them the coverage for the value of the
ship over and above whatever the ship
a when there's a casualty and a loss, as
collect from your all risks cargo
out with the ship owner, not be stuck in
New York fighting it out later on. And
too, when you're chartering a ship as a
charterer's liability insurance is a
shipper, the cargo interest from other
has a casualty and people are killed or
against everyone involved in the ship,
covers the charterer, the cargo interest
damages or if the ship is damaged by
discharging the ship. So, other other
too. So, I don't know, I tried to lay it
know it's convoluted. Yeah, there's a
Trump that the US could get involved and
here. What can that do?
you Is there any precedent for anything
Yeah, this you know, this news just you
the president will often say things that
bureaucrats, right? So, the mechanics of
precedent for US government agencies
Bank, for example, offers trade credit
example, right? As for protection and
sure uh although I don't have
there's been precedent for that in
too much of a stretch for the government
kind of safety net for ships to be able
complicated is maybe having US Navy or
Strait of Hormuz. That's not an easy
it, the 1980s when we reflagged tankers
protect them from the Iran-Iraq War at
escorting ships through the Strait of
proposition. It's not perfect, right?
through. You're putting US Navy ships,
and out of deployment for other
much in harm's way. That approach to the
speaking, is delicate, to say the least,
like actually sailing through the
I have not sailed through the strait.
were
I sailed through the Panama Canal on a
was a fun topic with
when it looked like we were going to
yeah, of course. Well, okay, actually,
just setting aside the insurance
stuff through the Strait of Hormuz at
captaining or crewing a ship, I would
you wouldn't want to be in the strait at
considerations beyond just how am I
or a lost vessel?
to get through there. Safety is
Um, this morning, a small container
units, was hit with, they're saying, an
waterline, put the engine room on fire.
pulled the whole crew off
even stay there to fight the fire. You
don't want to be there. And if you were
crude's, you have a harder time avoiding
what it is, right? That's the source of
But other commodities, dry in large
So, to Anton's comments,
shifted deviated from that area for now,
away
which means a more costly voyage, so
freight rates.
when you start adding on these new war
them, I'd venture to guess it's still
liquids, there's no choice. Like the it
like for some of these other things,
there's going to be some long route or
source. If we're talking about aluminum,
be less aluminum in the world or some
their production. Right. Like you take
Joe, that the United Arab Emirates have
ability to potentially load ships on the
Gulf, right? As Margot said, you know,
This is not where they typically load.
Emirates Global Aluminum shifting some
Gulf of Oman. I got to take a look I got
to say, you know, in in Tracy's question
of ships thinking on this, too. I'm
to answer your question. Imagine two
load a teddy bear in a container and
you want to risk your life as a ship's
know, stuck in the middle of a 20-ft
ship and saying, "Yeah, I'm not risking
though, to that alternate plan on the
I was reading that they're reporting
as well.
pull up a map during some of these
very clearly Oman has the benefit by and
ports are on its coast, but yes, the
them, whereas for the UAE, they're right
Yeah, unless the Houthis start up again,
interesting one. Mark and I were just
coming on. The Houthis have put the
restart attacks in the Red Sea and off
significantly deter traffic from heading
started any attacks yet. The threat's
ships, container lines diverting ships
southern tip of Africa to avoid heading
start start up with the missiles and
but they've as of at least 15 minutes
it's out there as a threat, but the
threat in and of itself already causes
remember I think the big port in Oman is
visited there once, but like it's pretty
don't think there've been any
certainly relatively close. This reminds
of people doing maybe insurance
flags or certain jurisdictions or
in a way that I guess Western companies
soon for that and too uncertain?
Tracy. Not Hormuz, right? We did see on
haven't seen that happening. There's
happening maybe with some of the very
it may be a a good anecdote to kind of
with uh you know, a year or plus or so
uh ramping up their attacks, there was a
had uh essentially uh the Chinese easy
……（接近结尾）……
mean, COVID hit every every part of the
world, every port in the world that had
problems and so forth. So, I think it
would take it would take a quite a bit
for it to get to that that stage. But
we're But already, as I mentioned
earlier, right? With the price of diesel
fuel in the US jumping, that's already
going to start hitting transport of of
local goods going from distribution
centers to the public you know, local
public supermarket here in Florida. So,
so it's going it's trickling down
already. We're going to start seeing it.
So, Margo and I bracing for the fuel
surcharges coming up. Yeah. This also
reminds me, I think even before recent
events, we were starting to see freight
rates pick up a little bit in the US and
some people were talking about a
potential turn in the cycle. I imagine
higher oil prices will, you know, eat
into some of
the industry's profits. But before this
week's events, did it feel like we were
starting to see a little bit of a turn?
Yeah, we just probably recently working
on 2026 barge barge contracts for
particularly for northbound goods like
steel, metals that are part of our
typical business. And Margo was on the
front lines on that and we didn't see
any much in the way of significant
increases, right? Margo, what do you
think for Okay.
No. Routine increases. It was nothing
terrible.
Yeah, it seems like it's a lot on the uh
yeah, the trucking the freight. Yeah,
truck freight has been
Yeah, where things are more volatile.
Trucking is so so reactive to the
market.
thousands of small carriers and you
know, their operators and so forth. And
then, you know, rail freight rail
freight is the exact opposite of the
truck freight market from liquidity to
monopolies. Well, let's not call them
monopolies actually.
No, but we know in trucks that you have
a down period and then thousands and
thousands of owner operators will come
out of the market and go out of business
and so and so supply swings down and up
in trucking in a way that would be
unimaginable in something like Right.
Exactly.
Yeah. So, I know we've we've said
multiple times now that the wild card is
really the length and how long this goes
on for. But are there any, I guess,
proactive steps that you're taking in
your own business to prepare for further
disruption? Mhm. Good question.
Because where we fit into the into the
supply chain is that our clients are the
traders.
So, we're managing their supply chain.
What protective actions or course
correctors they have in mind really will
relate to their trading book, which is
going to probably be
sourcing in alternate locations as
needed if you can't get your commodity
out of the Middle East or an affected
region. When we dial into domestic
logistics here, North American
logistics,
we will see everything continue to flow.
And we don't expect as much a disruption
of
capacity. The disruption will be prices.
But we'll still be moving moving things,
and we will still see truck, rail,
barge, and you know, ocean freight will
be more of the swing item here on what
are the lanes where the freight is
moving.
Joe, did you ever hear about the story
of the ships that were stuck in I think
the Suez Canal for like years and years
and years during the Six-Day War?
No. So, the crews that were stuck on the
ships like started their own postal
service and built their own little
society, but
I did It's a very interesting story. I
certainly hope nothing like that happens
this time around.
Carmen Rodriguez, and Kelly Brooks.
Please rate, review, and subscribe to
Odd Lots and Lots More on your favorite
podcast platforms. And for even more
beyond Lots More, go to
bloomberg.com/odd lots and chat with
fellow listeners in our Discord,
And don't forget that Bloomberg
subscribers can listen to all of our
podcasts absolutely ad-free. All you
have to do is find the Bloomberg channel
on Apple Podcasts and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.