TITLE: Markets Relieved as Trump Signals Iran War Ending 'Soon' | The China Show 3/10/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5576  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-10T07:18:14+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SNpreKLinFM
SHA256: 08455464a171609b37d895b1d37e3b418e2a84dac4d3704fcd9d9663a12c6c71

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] 1%. VIX futures are point pushing a
  [2%] Hang Seng Tech up 2%, that's where some
  [2025] 2025.
  [3%] Chinese airlines are all up about 3%
  [9%] also quite telling. We're down about 9%
  [10%] capabilities have been limited to 10% of
  [2026] approach going into 2026.
  [30%] increased from 30% before the war to 43%
  [50%] gasoline and diesel to 50% and further
  [8%] you know, 8% moves in the KOSPI index, I
  [42%] surged by 42%, which was a beat on the
  [13%] 13%
  [5000] back above that 5,000 level for some of
  [5%] Pacific up some 5% and some of these
  [4%] So Venezuela accounts for around 4% of
  [17%] total they account for 17%. So they
  [2030] energies. So in total by 2030 the clean
  [2021] 2021 when the Russia-Ukraine war
  [6%] Kospi's up some 6%. Hong Kong's also
  [18%] in about 18% in revenue. The energy
  [0.2%] increase will probably take off 0.2% of
  [1.3%] for the Hang Seng up 1.3%. Plenty more
  [1.81%] coming up to 1.81%
  [3.8] it will be reduced by 3.8, a pretty
  [5.8] China's energy capacity will reach 5.8
  [2020] current situation versus 2020 and early
  [12.6%] increased by 12.6%.
  [43%] increased from 30% before the war to 43%
  [0.7] around 0.7. But if unfortunately this
  [1.2%] very likely to be 1.2% for the whole
  [1.0] around 1.0.
  [5400] towards $5,400 per ounce, but then we've
  [5100] We're trading around what? 5,100 for
  [4500] perhaps closer to 4,500
  [1.6%] earnings later on as well. We're up 1.6%
  [15%] also down about 15%. Dollar China and
  [1000%] anywhere between 800 or 1,000%.
  [100%] haven't lost 100%. But, if I do a poly
  [29%] I think we're up about 29% year on year.
  [60%] think they mentioned 60% of premium

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Thank you, Mr. President. On Iran, you
called it an excursion. You said it
would be over soon. Are you thinking
this week it will be over? You're
talking about days?
President Trump there raising hopes the
Iran war may be nearing an end. You're
watching the China show. I'm Yvonne Man
with David Ingles.
markets in greater China. Our top
stories today stocks across the Asia
Pacific are rebounding from Monday's
massive sell-off. You have oil falling
as concerns ease over the war's
duration. Treasuries are snapping a
five-day decline.
oil-related sanctions and provide naval
escorts to tankers in the Strait of
Hormuz as he confronts mounting economic
pressure over the war.
Also ahead full year profit surges for
Chinese battery giant CATL boosting
overseas sales as a price war rages at
home. And a closer look at how factory
workers are getting left behind even as
China's export machine continues to hum.
Well, we're breathing a little bit
better today after
what was a pretty uh turbulent day of of
some of the wildest swings we really
have seen when it comes to crude markets
maybe since the days of COVID in some
way. So, you know, it is somebody's
calming soothing words from President
Trump. That's really all it took to
really send oil back below $90 now.
Yeah, and you got to wonder whether the
actual move in oil prices, the the
magnitude and the extent to which they
reached about close to 120 actually then
precipitated some of the walking back
there as far as the the the rhetoric
coming through out the US.
Uh but it's interesting given the
declines we are seeing in oil prices and
yes, by the way, it's a massive sigh of
relief across these markets. It's
interesting to that US futures are
somewhat reversing some of the gains
going into the close on Monday.
lingering, right? What what is Iran's
response going to be to all this as
well? And obviously, it it's going to
take a while still for vessels to go
through the Strait of Hormuz, right? And
you talk about you know, China raising
fuel prices and one thing. You talk
about the Saudis even talking about
cutting output. Um certainly, there's
still going to be lingering questions of
how quickly those sort of vessels can go
through that waterway. Yeah, let's have
a look at where we are as far as markets
go. I think it's
relatively accurate to say that markets
currently are pricing out tail risks.
We're not pricing out completely
the end of the conflict. I think that's
also quite telling. We're down about 9%
right now on Brent. Yes, we are back to
90 in case you need to look at this
twice. Uh let's have a look at where we
are as far as the dollar is concerned.
So you we did start off on weaker
footing. We had that spike around 90
minutes back in the Bloomberg Dollar
Index. We have given up some of those
gains to the current levels of 120. Uh
we'll have a conversation on gold later
on as well, why it has not acted as a
haven during this
uh this period of conflict here. Uh as
far as the bond markets go, uh so Asia
is actually tracking what we had on Wall
Street. Although as we were pointing out
as well, uh some of the gains uh on the
Wall Street session, whether that's in
the bond markets or in the the Treasury
market is reversing somewhat. There we
go. Asia extending the gains overnight.
And when you look at what's happening uh
going into the Chinese market today, at
least we have a window of opportunity
need to talk about corporate news,
things like CATL, things like earnings.
Uh we are on uh trade data is on tap, so
we'll have we'll get we'll we'll we'll
be with that shortly as well. Uh and
what that perhaps tells us about the
trade mix in terms of exports and
imports moving forward. The 10-year
yield and the steepening of the curve,
is that an inflation story playing out?
And let's just wrap things up with a
reminder that things might not be fully
out in the clear. There we go. US
futures are down somewhat a quarter of
1%. VIX futures are point pushing a
little bit higher Uh at this time of the
session.
know, President Trump is really kind of
maybe we're concerned that these you
know, oil prices are hitting triple
digits here and certainly that might
have been the trigger as to why we're
seeing a bit of
calming words from him on why he thinks
the war against Iran will end soon and
that he plans to really wave oil related
sanctions in a bid to cut fuel prices.
Take a listen.
On Iran, you called it an excursion. You
said it would be over soon. Are you
thinking this week it will be over or
are you talking about days?
everything they have is gone including
their leadership.
In fact, there two levels of leadership
and even actually as it turns out more
than that, but two levels of leadership
are gone.
We're also waving certain oil related
sanctions to reduce prices. So we have
sanctions on some countries. We're going
to take those sanctions off till this
straightens out. Then who knows, maybe
we won't have to put them on. There'll
be so much peace.
But when the time comes, the US Navy and
its partners will escort tankers through
the straight if needed.
Okay, let's uh bring in our team. Uh
Laura Davison, our politics editor and
on the energy space, Nicholas Lua in
Singapore for us. Laura, I'll start with
you. Um
very soon.
Can we quantify that in terms of hours,
days, and weeks?
very soon and he intentionally did not
specify um you know, any timeframe. He
was asked, you know, this week. He said
not this week. Uh you know, Trump is
sort of famous for saying that he's
going to have something done in 2 weeks
and that 2 weeks period never comes. So
I would caution everyone to take this
with a little bit of uh a grain of uh a
caution, a grain of salt here that this
is uh you know, not a developed policy
plan coming from the president. Um you
know, as Yvone just mentioned, perhaps a
signal to the markets uh to try to calm
them down. But what we're really seeing
from the White House, I think it's
important to differentiate the policy
proposals dealing with the war versus
the policy proposals dealing with the
symptoms of the war, namely high oil
prices. That's where we've seen a lot of
the effort, you know, both in terms of
of of actual things we've heard come
from the White House in terms of the
easing of sanctions, the uh naval
escorts for ships in the Strait of
Hormuz. Uh we have not heard anything
from the White House about how this war
will actually end. Uh you know, we've
heard Trump, you know, suggest a lot of
different things, uh but still doesn't
not a lot of clarity on what he's
looking for, whether that's regime
regime change, whether that is uh more
neutering of the of the nuclear
capabilities, the weapons capabilities,
the military capabilities of Iran. We
still don't know.
Okay. And do we know how Iran
you know, will respond in any way? You
know, have we heard from them on what
their perspective is on all this now?
You know, we don't have a great sense of
exactly what their next steps are, but
they have sort of this has been a real
tit-for-tat scenario of Trump said,
"We're going to hit harder." And Iran
says, "Great, we will hit you and your
allies in the region back harder." They
have shown no signs of slowing down.
There is a real question as we head, you
know, into, you know, week two of this
war is, you know, what are the
capabilities both of Iran? You know,
Trump has said that their you know,
capabilities have been limited to 10% of
what it was earlier. Not exactly clear
that that number is is quite accurate.
They've been able to do a lot of damage
with these relatively inexpensive
drones. You know, that we've heard from
allies in the region that they're
running out of missile interceptors.
There was a meeting with defense CEOs
……（中部抽样）……
last week to to to address this. There's
this melt up in oil prices? What have we
Kuwait cutting
sent the whole world crashing down.
to make the pass, but maybe that's not
And Nicholas, the
words, while we don't still yet know how
decisions don't get sorted, it looks
the Gulf is a major supplier. And so
headlines that we've been seeing from
looking at half of 1% in futures,
office. Very nice to have you. What a
think is what we had tried to advise.
or at least people weighing and
to growth, and therefore the longer it
impact itself from the region is very
market. It's global pricing that is
even before this crisis we actually
and that's also an indication that
the dollar should be weaker. But then we
still higher energy costs
interesting. It's not just about the AI
what about fixed income? And you know,
stays above 120 for the next 6 months,
it's a single mandate, it's inflation.
I actually think there's good
the euro.
global asset allocation and co-head of
course whether we see China catch up to
technical death cross as well. So, that
you'd end up with about the same. But
some of those big names across the stock
at some point this morning. Yep, so
energy storage. So, certainly that is
rally there.
they're doing with the symptoms of the
that is still a lingering question of
been, you know, doing a bit better than
morning. So certainly there is some
of the big names like Tencent, Alibaba,
currency. But we're coming off just a
guessing we'll see how that does. There
least recovered a bit here and we are
been kind of the ones that really have
the earnings coming through from CATL.
saying it is injecting much-needed
Seeing the Middle East engulfed in
There's the There's the geopolitical
related to whether if it is really like
uh amplified version of the 12th uh day
targeted was in some ways to really kind
geopolitical risk and also the energy
aggressive target. So it going to have a
imbalance in the market.
So, number one, China remain as the
more clean energies. So, the possible
of capture the leader in a matter of
United States. So, in average, the US
determine how much how big the impact
transmission from the upstream raw
upstream sector
very likely to turn positive in March
So you look at obviously the oil impact.
escalate.
transportation across the Hormuz Strait.
4 and 1/2%. Also, want to flag as well
with some contingency plans. Yeah, and
lower
actually fall for the most part. So
actually seen gold playing the role that
is pressure for cash, gold tends to be
liquidity need.
This is a great indicator to look at. If
ETFs and that data that data tends to be
end of January and that very sharp
the physical market.
the physical market is more active in
around where equity markets are
All right, coming up uh ooh, ETFs part
I didn't. Took me a while.
on the Hang Seng index. Similar gains
We're also waving certain oil-related
the eco impact of elevated oil prices.
still a lot of uncertainty about what
pinch, right? So, the pullback from
in Korea, 3 and 1/2% in Taiwan. Nikkei's
or 2 hours or so. At the moment it's
were freaking out.
there that he may end the war soon and
the retail activity in Korea with the
of the people that you guys your team
They're all worried about what whether
market in these market moves just
onshore mix of stocks is more aligned
might incentivize China to electrify
very much heavily invested in just the
right? The
of course over the horizon of of late
show. Right, we are piecing together
Uh so it's a unique glimpse into the
you're you're spot on. You know, if if
mean, these are these are historically
been the the topics that are that are
never had a better 12 months than last
triple levered uh KORU is our ETF that's
Talk to us about the Korea story,
seen where you just sort of keep
data how long do people actually hold
all, if you don't understand leverage,
they're not educated. It means they need
the people that are going to be trading.
I mean, just think ever since Trump
a perfect example. If you're not capable
and then what will happen? We'll see the
world. Is that how you saw it in terms
opportunities to buy into the Mag 7, the
think it's going to end? Right? Do we
opportunities for a long-term investor.
working on new, new ETFs that are that
top five names, and we lever them up
people trade. So, you'll start to see us
what do you think is the near-term risk?
we're actually seeing regulatory, I'll
or lose. So, let's just think about if I
investing. There's a big difference in
they basically said in an announcement,
zero. Whereas, if you come in, get
ETF space in a new segment that is
the company poses a national supply
out exactly why this has happened and
there actually is a legal basis here
prevented from working with other
Pentagon. His actual title is the Under
be playing out over several months
a bit of relief there given that oil
worried about, $100 oil and the like,
Yeah, we are sitting a lot better than
guess the the storm clouds were too
still waiting for some numbers and data
has been heavily focused on its EV
9% gain in revenue. So these are the two
energy storage, and number two, pushing
Yeah, and they've been able to kind of
in the fourth quarter. That's really
So, a lot will hinge upon the company's
Hong Kong H cap. Of course, the H shares
makes it tricky right now. Everyone's
what was kind of like short short in
continues to be a strong driver for this
customer relationships, because this is
these raw material impacts. Uh talk to
cuz obviously today everyone always
ready. And I think that's the
is that it's sort of this AI proxy
domestic demand not because of AI but
lot of that is really predicated on
market. And I think that's to your
the share performance.
effort through the anti-involution to
we we spoke earlier, but overall I think
cost pressures going up or whether or
lithium battery prices. People mention
champion to a global powerhouse. They
made a big push in battery swap. CATL
these guys do diverge. We'll see what
doing everything. Xiaomi is a great
that investors still look at it as an
Let's do this again, sir. Thank you so
to come through. Estimates on your
to say the least. Uh China of course has
of wave. Uh China has been posing record
……（接近结尾）……
served customers like hotels and
restaurants were also um closed or uh
very empty. So, I think that's another
aspect of Guangdong that's it's quite
particularly interesting, the connection
to the property sector, but also other
traditional industries such as apparel.
So, obviously, uh it's uh the home of
many factories and workshops that
provides uh material and goods to um
consumer brands like Shein and so on and
so forth. So, I think again, these are
some of the reasons why Guangdong
represents a good choice.
Yeah. And some of the people that you
spoke to there, I mean, they said
they're just there to earn enough to eat
and pay rent. I mean, one of them said
they they make less than 100 RMB, that's
about 14 US dollars a day uh in the past
few years. So, that certainly does show
what they've been going through. Uh
Column, tell them more about what How
does involution
automation, even the gig economy, how
how do you think that sort of plays into
all of this, too?
So, right, as I mentioned at the top,
you know, the changing nature of the
exports is only really one element of
this, and there are many, many uh
different elements. So, involution, uh
as we know, is this sort of
uh cutthroat competition that really
squeezes profit margins for many uh
domestic companies here in China.
Obviously, that trickles down also to
the workers. It means that their
companies are are pairing back on
salaries or being more frugal in terms
of of hiring.
Uh automation, of course, China has been
front and foremost of embracing this. I
think there are more industrial robots
in China than in any other countries in
the world, any other country in the
world. And that also has an impact on
employment in so far as that now either
fewer workers are required or or none at
all. So this is these are two other
factors at play.
And then we're seeing the the growth of
the gig economy. I think it's something
like 40% of urban
urban employment is now accounted by the
gig economy.
This has two aspects that are worth
noting. One of course is that such jobs
typically don't come with benefits and
also those those particular sectors are
quite prone to further
sort of demise by automation going
forward. So think about ride-hailing
cabs for example.
A lot of those drivers who would have
come from other industries
will could one day sooner or later lose
their jobs to say driverless taxis.
A A column just quickly, we know this is
a policy priority automation and
robotics. What could be or what should
be or what is the policy offset to sort
of blunt the blow to the labor market
here?
Well, I think we're now in the MPC
session obviously. So I mean lawmakers
will be looking at how this sort of
drive for new technologies and how to
push the economy based on new
technologies while being all very good
and well on one hand does have the the
the fact that you know, are we replacing
jobs quickly enough?
And I think that has been has to be one
area where the policy makers need to
look more closely. One of the things
that struck me talking to the people on
the street and when during our reporting
was that many of them felt like
completely
hopeless or helpless. They They They
didn't know how to
get new skills or or reposition
themselves in the marketplace. So I
think the government can do more to help
people figure out their future path.
Callum, thank you so much. Callum
Murphy, you can check out his piece on
the Bloomberg Terminal. Fantastic there.
This
is the China show.
Off highs but still higher for the day.
The risk rally continues in the
Asia-Pacific. Lots of coming up. We'll
see if India opens up along the same
lines as well. Also coming up here. Uh
more on this Bloomberg scoop uh that
Apple now makes about a quarter of its
iPhones in India after this China pivot.
Read about that scoop next.
The India open is coming up next. Let's
see if the rally continues. That's it
from us here on the China show. We will
see you all tomorrow.