TITLE: Why Iran Isn’t Breaking: Vali Nasr on the Uprising That Isn’t Coming | The Mishal Husain Show
CHANNEL: The Mishal Husain Show
DURATION_S: 2353  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-13T06:21:37+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E0Um9KyI5mc
SHA256: 0db7c1c6d21417ca48068b5b66abb0284ebddf3aeebd0617609b420809653ad8

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1953] and 1953,
  [1979] too. When the 1979 revolution created
  [1946] I mean, between 1946 end of World War II
  [1980] the impact of the war in the 1980s with
  [35%] class would have grown by 35%.
  [20%] maximum pressure, actually 20% of Iran's
  [1500] since at least the 1500s. It's the

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Iran never considered that it should lay
down its weapons and just give in and
this is proven extremely costly to them.
And now this is the final battle. This
is where we've ended up.
expert on Iran.
over.
political uprising in Iran, it's not
happening and it won't happen until the
dust of this war settles.
do you think that is going to take?
hoping for. This is an endurance run.
You're going to get battered but you
just got to stay up on your feet and
keep going.
Michelle Hussein show.
The question of when the Iran war will
come to an end is one that so many
people are grappling with and worrying
about right now. And it's at the heart
of the conversation you're about to
hear. How can Iran still be firing
missiles and drones despite the force
the United States and Israel are using
against it? What does the new supreme
leader think he can achieve? That's what
made me think of Vali Nasr, a professor
and author who I knew could take us into
the mindset of Iran's key players. He's
someone who's devoted his life to the
study of this complex country and region
and its relationship with the United
States. He once advised the Obama
administration. And Iran's story of the
last 50 years has changed his own life,
too. When the 1979 revolution created
the Islamic Republic, he and his family
were forced into exile and he's lived in
the US ever since.
In this, you'll hear Vali Nasr explain
how Iran is playing a long game, seeing
this as a final stand against American
might. And he talks about how the
Iranian diaspora is being torn apart by
this war, as well as how inside Iran,
it's leading people to rally around the
flag.
Vali, welcome. Thank you for being part
of this, for having this conversation at
this very intense time. Can we begin
with what the president has been saying
just before the two of us speak,
suggesting that the war will end soon?
What do you think?
he from the very beginning, he was
hoping that this would be a very quick
war, that he would have a major win,
kill the supreme leader, bomb some
strategic sites in Iran along with
Israel, and that there would be a new
leadership in Iran. And he would be the
president who brought Iran in from the
cold, so to say, changed the direct
trajectory of Iran's development.
And now this war has gone out of his
control. It's far longer, far messier,
and is actually exacting a cost from the
United States, both in terms of damage
to its bases,
to its military in the region,
but also to energy markets and the
global economy as a whole.
So, I think he's signaling that he wants
to end it, but I don't think Iran is
ready to to quit. I think they've put
their teeth into the United States right
now, and they are not ready to let go.
They've already suffered a lot,
and I think they're prepared to suffer
more, but they want to come out of this
war with changing the US's calculation.
They don't want to go back to the status
quo before.
suffer? Is that endlessly? Because the
the price that they're already paying,
more than a thousand people killed, the
fuel depots set on fire, the oil
supplies affected by that. How large is
the price that they're willing to pay?
had calculated this from before, that of
course going up against two superior
militaries with enormous amount of air
power that Iran was going to suffer.
But, I think their calculation is that
this is not a munitions count. This is
not about who has bigger bomb. This is
about who has a higher threshold of
pain.
And uh they think United States and
Israel can dash a lot faster, but
they're not really long-distance
runners. And so, I think they're
prepared to absorb this for far longer.
And every including the choice of a new
leader in in Iran, the fact that the
population is getting angry at the US
and Israel, and is rallying around the
defense of the country, all of it tell
them that uh that they can last longer.
And so, this comes down to the end of
who has more patience and and who has a
higher threshold of pain.
that to what end? To going back to the
status quo before this war?
had to be the last war.
Either they go down or that the United
States and Israel will abandon the idea
that they could go into Iran and have a
war every 6 months or at will. This idea
of mowing the lawn.
That the United States and Israel, and
particularly United States, has to pay
high enough a cost to lose its appetite
for war with Iran. And also, I think
they want, as part of a settlement, that
the sanctions would be lifted, that the
maximum pressure would be lifted on
Iran, there would be some kind of maybe
even a ceasefire and withdrawal of
Israel from Lebanon. But, also they are
saying very openly that they want the
United States to abandon its bases in
the region. And they're following a very
clever strategy here of convincing the
Arab the Gulf states that the United
States bases are not really there to
protect them. They're not protecting
them. They're there to wage war against
Iran and invite war on the Gulf.
And I think they're hoping that when
this war ends, that it will problematize
the US presence in the region. And so,
this kind of a cordon that has been
around Iran for a very long time, will
break down. Now, these might be
maximalist goals. I'm not saying they're
going to achieve it. But, this is
exactly what is driving them.
Mojtaba Khamenei, the son of the now
killed Ayatollah and the new supreme
leader?
this view. First of all, what Israel and
the United States have done is to
eliminate the first generation of the
revolution by and large from the
leadership, particularly in the
Revolutionary Guards and now the supreme
leader.
So, there's a whole new generation of
younger Revolutionary Guards commanders
have come to the fore, who have a very
different view of national security.
These are not people who earned their
stripes in the Iran-Iraq War, in a big
land war. These are people who fought
against the US and ISIS in Syria and in
Iraq. They have a very different view of
national security. And Mojtaba is very
closely associated with them. In fact,
Mojtaba was very intimately involved in
the whole process of shaping the
Revolutionary Guards over the past 25
years of who got promoted, who rose in
the ranks. So, he's very tight with
them. And also, I would add, Michelle,
that Mojtaba, among all the other
candidates, has two qualities that
really matter now. One is that because
he's been sitting next to his father for
the past three decades,
he, as well as the fact that he is a
veteran of the Revolutionary Guards
himself, and a cleric, he's the most
ready candidate to step in the job day
one, and doesn't need two, three years
to learn the job and to get settled in.
And secondly, the manner in which his
father, his wife, his son, his sister
were killed, particularly in the
religious aura of Iran, even in the
nationalist aura of Iran, gives him a
particular charisma. In other words,
he's earned this office not because he's
a grand Ayatollah or a great scholar,
because of the his suffering. I mean, he
replicates Shia saints or or or mythical
Iranian heroes. So, he's the only
candidate out of the ones that was
nominated that actually has the greatest
charisma, if you would, in terms of
stepping out into this role.
how many outsiders think of the
theocracy? Because father-to-son
succession is not supposed to be a thing
in the Islamic Republic. And as you say,
he doesn't have the religious
credentials. He hasn't spent all those
decades in Islamic learning and becoming
an Ayatollah.
this office is is metamorphosing over
time since Khomeini took it over. So,
Khamenei also was not a grand Ayatollah
in the traditional sense of being really
learned with a huge following. It's the
office that made him. And he was
referred to a supreme leader more often,
which is a very secular title. And his
son, similarly.
You're correct that even Khamenei
……（中部抽样）……
himself was of two minds as to whether
succession is coming in the middle of a
a regime.
that Iran's borders may not be the same
think the ultimately the Council of
moment. And as I said, Mojtaba brings
backing of the Revolutionary Guards, the
what the US intended? Because I'm
because of sanctions, because of the
they were put down. And yet now you're
but people turning against the United
Iran against the regime. And there is
under theocracy or economic isolation.
been complicated with the fact that the
Iranians are fighting for their
bombing of oil depots,
there there is a whole new, if you
you for war or you against war? As
And then are you for protecting Iran or
picture very much so. And increasingly
to basically saying at this particular
actually support the country. And so, if
it's not happening and it won't happen.
Iranian public is not a factor in this
counting on that the war would pave the
hoping for. He thinks that he can just
he's willing to offer Iranians something
mentioned to you, I don't think the
right now. That it's not like like last
on how this war ends. I think the future
damaged but with their head held high
forced certain compromises on them
a ceasefire.
chooses to employ?
don't need to to do something that
it's very clear that outside the United
for standing up to Donald Trump, for
States. I think a $120 barrel oil and
businesses than just energy is much more
hands of the US to demonize them.
were killed by Tomahawk missiles which
have been sunk rather than captured
the bombing of a city like Isfahan.
public hugely against the United States
the US and Israel are not liberators and
about Iran. But this is going not going
know exploring within this story about
gives them advantage. And I would add
which is important to them and they do
asked for a ceasefire. In their opinion
bombarded Iran in 12 days but towards
And so Iranians came to this conclusion
firepower. This is an endurance run.
keep going.
um because your book Iran's grand
particularly struck by how you describe
outside world was really on Saddam
moment where that determination that
harrowing war. Probably up force of a
resources.
readers, including Ayatollah Khamenei,
guard commanders.
territory and then continue to wage war
when nobody would sell it tanks,
And they they learned that international
would sell it anything. It increasingly
up, if you would, trying to figure out
its own resources. I mean, we see this
buying them. This is a do-it-yourself
willing and able to sow destruction
or of course Hezbollah in Iran and the
know how it looks to their adversaries,
thinking, there is a strategy to this.
of religion.
has made alliances with its neighbors.
has been sanctioning Iran and tightening
this in a conventional way. Nobody will
against the US.
defend yourself farther away from your
that is to help Russia at its moment of
under sanctions at the UN.
supporting the US strategy against Iran.
world, and the strategy of defending
But Iran never considered that it should
and the US. It has been determined to
Ayatollah Khomeini Khamenei and Khomeini
to Iran. The United States wants to take
Middle East. And this has proven
ended up.
another?
very well understand that this 47 years
was waged.
the United States now on its own soil
And so this is the final stand that
or resistance manages to change the
designing a US policy towards Iran right
the State Department. You worked in the
which did result in a policy of
form of engagement.
deal, would it have resulted in a better
in a better place. First off, even
deal,
sanctions on Iran and and trying to
it radicalized it, it made it much more
hardline, hardheaded leadership rose to
Secondly, let's look at the other side.
like President Rouhani or
the building block of gradual change
President Rouhani's office had an
class would have grown by 35%.
Whereas when Trump came out and imposed
fell under the poverty belt.
authoritarian and becomes more radical.
we look back at that at one point. It
to create a nuclear bomb if it possibly
Khamenei
Now, the West may dismiss this as
very strong statement.
valid. It's not no longer standing. So,
that fatwa or not. But national security
all, they made a determination
that could be monitored by IAEA, trying
should have followed India-Pakistan
bomb rather than a program. And so,
with the world for a civilian nuclear
they go from here, I think, is that
likely, or that the program would be
supposedly that's exactly what
decades.
"Well, this policy is specific to Iran."
countries now have dis- looked at this
secretly.
on you, will deal with you, sign a deal,
is. And so, maybe many countries would
But, we're also in a world where
of mass destruction to protect
And I recently read eminent Pakistani
country actually made the choice to
So, there's a lot of other countries
leadership on countries, bullying
nuclear weapons.
world.
so much from your book about, for
what someone like Khomeini, the founder
happened.
history. It's continuously evoked. And
has had aggressive neighbors, Russia and
the British and the French and
went through famine because of Western
And the older generation of the Islamic
and 1953,
1946, the Soviet Union occupied northern
intervened, that didn't happen. But
experience. And then barely 7 years
minister who wanted to nationalize
Minister Mosaddegh.
was created in order to change that
mean, they say this. And Iran's former
said, "The Islamic Republic is the first
and protect its borders." Because that
of Iranian Iran basically being under
that analysis, but that's the history
Reza Pahlavi, and his desire to be seen
some people at least before this war,
before this war, and we'll see whether
important institutions of power in Iran
So when the monarchy was in power and it
And when the clergy are in power and
institution. And Iranian monarchy has
historically.
happened in Iran under the Islamic
and his father. That those were better
open country.
So he symbolizes the desire for a return
past for many Iranians.
……（接近结尾）……
this is in terms of what is good for the
Middle East, what's good for the United
States, and what's good for Iran.
But, you know, we all have to cope. As I
said, maybe having gone through
the experience of the hostage crisis
when I was much younger, having gone
through the experience of post-9/11
period, I think we are all more prepared
for this moment.
But, it is also deep fractures within
the Iranian-American community itself.
And that's in a way is even more painful
to watch and and and to experience at
this moment that also the the community
abroad is eating itself as a consequence
of of of these events.
mean, are cheering the Americans and the
Israelis on?
creating a great deal of It's become now
very much common to talk about how
friendships are broken, how people don't
talk to each other, how members of the
family don't talk to each other.
And it's very simple.
It used to be, are you, you know, for
the regime or not? And that was a much
easier answer.
But, now that is all do you support the
war or you do not support the war? At
what price should Iran pay for the
Islamic Republic to go?
I mean, there are those abroad who say
that they're willing even for Iran to be
divided, to lose territory, a war at any
cost
for the regime to go. And this makes for
very difficult conversations within the
community. And now it is not just that
Iranian-Americans or like
Muslim-Americans have to have difficult
conversations with American-Americans
who are Christians or Jews. It is the
most difficult conversations we're
having now is actually with our own
kindred.
change to to borders at the end of it?
Like, if you look at the Iraqi border
and the fact that there are Iranian
Kurdish groups which could cross that
border and which have had relationships
with the US. Or, if you think about the
border with Pakistan and the Baloch
people on both sides of that border.
collapses in Iran and if this war truly
creates a situation where
Iranian security forces cannot control a
country the size of Western Europe
and you have neighbors along with the
United States and Israel supporting
separatist groups, it's possible
that one may end up there. But, I can
tell you Michelle that right now the
talk of it, the prospect of it, is
actually unifying the Iranian people at
the center in defense of the country.
So, when President Trump said, "I'm not
sure the borders of Iran
would be the same at the end of the
war." I can tell you in Iran this fell
like a two-ton rock. It created huge
amount of anxiety and and rallying, if
you would, to the flag. But, again, it
it shows the degree of anxiety that
Iranians are feeling and facing. It's
not about the collapse of the Islamic
Republic, which maybe many of them would
welcome in some ways.
But, they are really, really worried
that the price that the country itself
might pay. And I think that may create
even a sort of unexpected outcomes
within Iran and in terms of how it wages
this war, how the people react to it.
words with which you begin
your latest book, published last year,
where you wish that Iran finds its
rightful place in the world. Can you
paint a picture of that? What is your
vision for Iran's rightful place in the
world?
that is prosperous, that is open, that
its people are happy and is that is at
peace with
its neighbors and with itself. And Iran
for 47 years now has been at war.
Has been at war with the United States,
with Iraq. It's been at in economic war
and now in hot war.
And its population is exhausted. And its
population has a deep sense that Iran is
capable of much more than this, that it
should be a great power on the world
stage.
And I wish for that to come true, and I
wish for all Iranian Americans to be
able to not have a distant relationship
with Iran, but this this large
community, very talented people who love
their country,
to actually to be able to coexist with
it in an organic way.
And and and and same with the people
inside Iran to be exposed to the world
in a way that's that they currently are
not.
us some time.