TITLE: Ro Khanna on Stopping the Iran War, Epstein and Taxing Billionaires | The Mishal Husain Show
CHANNEL: The Mishal Husain Show
DURATION_S: 2117  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-20T06:10:08+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LV2DdMZwnCM
SHA256: 0269201794684a6343b7b6b0edec23a0ff7e5a4550cfb37e2443cc2fe43f770e

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2028] running for president in 2028.
  [2017] House of Representatives since 2017.
  [2026] going to prevail in 2026 and 2028.
  [1930] 1930s. He was working for Lala Lajpat
  [1940] Rai. And then in the 1940s, I
  [12.5%] who have 12.5% of the GDP. That is three
  [3500] at $3,500 in election cycle. But I still
  [1976] Philadelphia in 1976,
  [97%] County, Pennsylvania, 97%, 98% white,
  [98%] County, Pennsylvania, 97%, 98% white,

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
It's been a botched operation. The
president's [music] a keen observer of
the economy and he understands that this
is hurting the very working and middle
class Americans who he campaigned for
and I do believe he's looking for an
off-ramp to end the war. [music] Ro
Khanna, a Democratic Congressman from
Silicon Valley. He forced the release of
the Epstein files.
transparency.
talking about how his party can win over
America. We are going to build a
cohesive,
multi-racial democracy where everyone
has an economic stake. That in my view
is where the heart and soul of the
American people are.
From Bloomberg Weekend,
The war with Iran has been longer and
more costly than it appears the US and
Israel imagined when it all began. And
even when hostilities cease,
it's likely to have a long impact on
energy, aviation, shipping, confidence
of many kinds. In our last two episodes,
we've stepped beyond the headlines to
add depth and context to what we're all
seeing play out on the news.
And this time, we've gone for a view
from Capitol Hill where lawmakers did
not get a say on this use of force.
Congressman Ro Khanna has been in the
House of Representatives since 2017.
He's elected from an incredibly wealthy
district in California. It's home to
some of America's biggest tech giants
and to some of Silicon Valley's most
prominent individuals. If you recognize
his name but aren't quite sure why, it's
probably because of the Epstein files.
He was one of the two congressmen who
forced the US Department of Justice to
release thousands of documents. And in
this conversation, he tells me how that
experience has given him a new
confidence to pursue his goals on other
fronts, including taxing billionaires
and ending this war. He's a Democrat
from the progressive wing of the party
and as you'll hear, he might just be
running for president in 2028.
So here it is, a political take on the
war in Iran, the future of the
Democratic Party, and yes, those files.
Congressman, many more people know who
you are today than was the case a year
ago and that is because of your work on
the Epstein files over so many months.
Tell me how and when you first heard of
his name, Jeffrey Epstein.
I heard years ago when during the first
Trump administration,
there was reporting about survivors who
had been raped, abused by this man,
Jeffrey Epstein, and that there had been
a cover-up and not appropriate
prosecution. And at that time, Elijah
Cummings was the chair of the Oversight
Committee and we put out a statement
saying we should investigate it. But
then I didn't think much of it. I had
pushed for investigation but it really
resurfaced when
there was a lot of press coverage by
Julia Brown and others with the Donald
Trump campaign and I started to follow
it closely about these survivors who had
been abused and abandoned by our Justice
Department.
for you to get involved as you had
because look, you represent Silicon
Valley, one of the wealthiest and most
powerful places in the country, if not
the planet, and your own writing and
work has been a lot about the future of
the economy and the future of tech. And
then here you were going out on a limb
for the Epstein survivors.
Well, I didn't realize quite how many
powerful people would be implicated. The
the reason I did it initially is I
understood how much of this an issue
this was to a lot of people, that sense
that there are two tiers of justice in
America, that the rich and powerful can
get away with something that ordinary
Americans can't. I had visited factory
towns, Trump districts, podcasters and I
understood that this was a matter of
fairness for a lot of Americans. As I
got more deeply involved at with the
partnership with Massie, I met the
survivors and it became a very personal
and emotional issue for me, people in my
office in tears reliving their trauma
and I would never have expected that
this would become a cause
that I would end up getting so involved
in and championing, but it was an
organic process of really getting to
know these survivors and being horrified
about how they were treated.
Congressman you worked with on this.
To date, what do you feel you have
achieved in terms of the justice? Some
of the names are out there. Clearly in
the UK where I am, there has been a
process of accountability for some that
appears to be underway. What do you feel
you have achieved in concrete terms in
the US? Well, we forced the disclosure
of over 3 million files, half the files
which people never thought would be
disclosed and it's been a moral
reckoning for the United States and the
world to see so many powerful
financiers, politicians, technology
leaders, Hollywood leaders caught up
with Epstein, what I've called an
Epstein class, rich and powerful people
who thought that their wealth and their
connections shielded them from any
accountability, elite impunity. And now
there is a reckoning with that in
different countries. In some cases, it's
led to resignations of powerful people
from banks and from universities. In
America though, we need to do more. We
need to have investigations of people
who gave vast amounts of money to
Epstein. We need to have investigations
of those who have been credibly accused
of raping and trafficking and there need
to be prosecutions. But what this has
shown the nation is that there are
people like Massie and me willing to
stand up to the powerful, willing to say
that you can't have elite impunity,
willing to say that there needs to be
one system of justice in this country
and that's the first step to restoring
trust in a democratic project.
in the US? I know that after the release
of the files, you one of the people
allowed to see
unredacted files. Give us a sense of
what that experience was like. How many
names were there that really jumped out
at you, especially in relation to
the body of what was written underneath
those names? Well, the unredacted files
were heavily redacted because there were
already redactions done by the FBI in
March and there still needs to be these
302 forms that are released, statements
of survivors to the FBI about who abused
them, who raped them. We recently saw a
cover-up where the woman who accused
Donald Trump, and these are just
allegations, one of her interviews was
released but the three of them that
mentioned Trump were not released and
then it was only because Nancy Mace and
myself and Massie and journalists pushed
that the DOJ relented and now have
released those three other interview
memorandum. Like that, there many other
witness interview memorandum that still
need to be released. I'm not saying that
all of the allegations are true or not,
that's for the investigation and
prosecution and American people to
decide, but what there shouldn't be is a
cover-up, which is a violation of the
law. It shouldn't be members of Congress
having to expose this. There needs to be
the release of the rest of the files.
And some of the people whose names are
in there say that while they were
associated with Jeffrey Epstein, some of
them say that they had no knowledge of
his crimes. I wonder if you have
reflected at all on the way that you
phrased it in the act, which I which I
read through in preparation for the
interview. This is the act that you
spearheaded and which in the end Donald
Trump said Republicans in Congress could
vote for. You made it impossible for him
to withstand. But the fact that you put
this very tight time frame in there,
that not later than 30 days after the
date of the act, the Justice Department
had to release the files. On reflection,
do you think some of that led to the
very messy nature of what ensued, that
some of the names of the victims and
……（中部抽样）……
really difficult details for them did
subpoenaed for these files back in
that they weren't preparing this is a
in November, but they should have
for more time to confer with the
refused to meet with Massie and me. They
basically released nothing and then they
the only thing that explains this is
you think that
towards prosecutions because now this
Well, it's moved away from the front
and they're outraged on behalf of the
justice, but they're outraged at the
powerful and because of their
undermines the very trust in the nature
isn't corrupt and beholden to a few. And
wealth inequality, that we need national
that we need a free public college and a
restore trust in the democratic project
continue to fight for it. This is not a
commitment to restoring our democracy
on the Epstein files and other causes
you've worked on this, what has it done
determination that if you needle at
something?
coalition in America. This is the first
worked with Trump voters, that we've
they voted for Donald Trump partly
getting away with things and corrupting
who affiliated with a pedophile and
and abuse. And that was a very powerful
and that forced Donald Trump to sign my
coalition. I believe we will build a new
commitment against new wars. That means
you're hoping for a split in MAGA and
calling for holding the elite
calling for tackling wealth inequality
that there needs to be a reform in a
equal justice for all. And it means some
government, who had lost faith in the
these foreign wars, that they can come
Americans first and take on a society
coalition. It is a coalition that's
alongside Marjorie Taylor Greene with
were you one of those trying to get her
then you make new friends in the
and with Marjorie Taylor Greene, she
career for it. And we were talking
about possibly dealing with a housing
for Donald Trump, but to approach them
or LGBT rights or immigrant rights, but
anger at the system? What is it about
ground to offer a new national purpose
independence for every family in the
Because you haven't had any luck yet in
essentially hoping that the mood of the
progress. When I used to introduce these
unilateral actions, sometimes I was seen
efforts from Hakeem Jeffries on down. We
most Americans realize that spending $2
already lost unfortunately 13 service
that's where American public sentiment
levers that you can pull?
with our military and then to be very
of Khamenei. I don't know understand
86-year-old. But to be very clear that
uranium, to engage with Oman in in those
Strait of Hormuz. But that requires
at what a negotiated settlement with
president is looking for some kind of
or what he was expecting?
America, the price of oil has gone
some advisers that the Strait of Hormuz
It's led most tragically to the loss of
price of gas. He understands that this
and I do believe he's looking for an
diplomacy that President Obama showed
you're convinced of what you're saying
conclusion. There's nothing in his
picking up on something behind the
Capitol Hill that
yet? Well, Trump's statements are all
The other day he says no, the war is
hearing from house colleagues,
about the price of gas going up. They're
not able to change the regime as many of
huge cost of ground troops. They
out to die to Iran or the Middle East.
of support still among Republican
pressure is is going to continue to
Democrats like Josh Gottheimer that will
really stuck in my mind where you spoke
going to erode the soul of America.
the glossier version of what you're
me about your fears of what the really
to world affairs where he felt impunity
change. He's threatening to conquer
characters who are leading. This has
Minister Carney quoted Thrasymachus in
pre-enlightenment thinking. The entire
human rights, we have a respect for
will lead a world committed to human
is not for that vision. But I believe a
will work towards that end and we're
well be next? Is that now a more
spoken out that what we need is a
you could have Cuban nationals in
redevelopment in Cuba. The Cuban
and sanctions. That would be in the
Cuba's interest. But what we can't do is
also has another wing of his party that
tug-of-war with him. And I am pushing
talk about you, cuz you were talking
And I was thinking about your
and about the fact that in some ways
member of Parliament in India.
independence movement in the early
uh chuckled when I saw one of the
United States Congress may topple the
arrested, there were several headlines
self-determination for nations, my
of my faith of Gandhi and Hinduism, uh
very much pushing Britain that, you
essential at the Second World War to
Churchill, stop it. Churchill had no
Indian independence movement, as well.
actions on the world stage, would you
under America's control. And the
never suggested he would in his
it pales in comparison to the evils of
India and Africa that are
violation with American ideals? I do.
majority
we'll see. I'm focused on having Hakeem
start thinking about who's going to win
I'm focused right now on building a
and sovereignty and territorial
in relation to what you're saying about
president who hasn't sent forces into
presidential power more often than it is
Well, the self-defense of the nation. If
of course need to use force. I've been
I initially supported the strikes
absolutely correct to go after Al-Qaeda
security, to our homeland, to our bases,
was no imminent threat to the United
security weakens the United States
Epstein files, the work you were really
on wealth taxes. You've supported a
similar measure at home in California.
surprising from you is that given the
are the people who would be targeted by
Hill are my voters, uh who are engineers
teachers and working-class folks. And
voters there are not uh the
thousand billionaires across the
been since I ran for Congress, since I
entrepreneurship, innovation, wealth
who have 12.5% of the GDP. That is three
Carnegie, and Vanderbilt. And what I've
these billions of dollars that aren't
income tax. And that that funding could
every American has an ownership stake in
donations from some of those very
you. And I imagine some of them have
technology leaders. And
……（接近结尾）……
sign my bill. People often come up and
say, "Thank you for your work." more
than thank you for your advocacy. And I
think the American people are looking
for workhorses, for people who are
actually going to substantively improve
their lives. I guess what I'm really
asking is do you think a progressive
Democrat can win the candidacy and the
country in 2028, someone from your wing
of the party? Well, if Bernie Sanders
were 15 years younger, he would be the
next president of the United States.
Now, no one has his trust and popularity
on our wing, but I believe what will win
the country is someone who has a bold,
fresh economic vision combined with a
commitment to rights. Saying we're not
going to throw the immigrant community
under the bus. We're not going to throw
the black community under the bus by
bashing DEI. We're not going to throw
the LGBT or trans community under the
bus, that we are going to build a
cohesive, multiracial democracy where
everyone has an economic stake. That, in
my view, is where the heart and soul of
the American people are and we need
leadership that will inspire us to
fulfill that destiny. In our final
minutes, and I know politicians always
have to be really positive and
forward-looking and optimistic, but let
me behind
that for a moment. I'm not going to call
it a mask. I'm going to ask you, what
are the things you worry about? Like
if you wake up in the middle of the
night, what do you think could stand in
the way of all of that, the vision, the
dream?
Well, look, when you have a story like
mine, and my grandfather jailed twice by
British colonialism, my parents
immigrants to America, I was born in
Philadelphia in 1976,
grew up a middle-class life with a
chemical engineer father and a teacher's
assistant mother and took out a lot of
loans for higher education, but had
people who believed in me in Bucks
County, Pennsylvania, 97%, 98% white,
teachers who believed in me, Little
League coaches who believed in me. And
then this country elects me after having
served President Obama at the age of 40
to represent the most economically
consequential place, arguably, in the
history of the world, 1/3 of the stock
market in my district, a $20 billion
Apple, Google, Nvidia, Broadcom, Tesla.
You can't help but be hopeful about the
American story. We will be the first
cohesive, multiracial democracy in the
history of humanity. That will be our
civilizational accomplishment. What I
worry about is the pain and damage that
people will do in the meantime, the pain
and damage to immigrant families in our
country, the pain and damage to the
young schoolgirls who were killed in
Iran, the pain and damage to our service
members who lost their lives. There is
innumerable pain and damage that Donald
Trump can continue to do in the next 3
years. And while the trajectory of
American democracy, in my view, is on a
place that I would bet on, the violence
and hardships and suffering en route to
that destination is something that
concerns me, worries me, saddens me and
pains me. Congressman Ro Khanna, thank
you.
Thank you.
And that's where we left the
conversation. Before we leave you, I do
want to add that those unverified
allegations against President Trump that
were mentioned have been described by
White House press secretary Karoline
Leavitt as completely baseless. She says
Donald Trump has been totally exonerated
by the release of the Epstein files.
Elsewhere, Congressman Khanna alleged
that there had been a cover-up by the US
Department of Justice. In a letter to
lawmakers, the DOJ said it didn't redact
or withhold documents to protect
anyone's reputation or over political
sensitivities.
It is also said that documents are only
withheld if they fall into one of these
categories. They're a duplicate, they're
privileged, or they're part of an
ongoing federal investigation.
And just a reminder, the context around
every conversation is always there in my
notes [music]
to the written version and you'll find
those at bloomberg.com/michelle.