TITLE: How War in Iran Will Squeeze America's Farmers Even Further | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 2857  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-19T13:35:19+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=01Fz7FjXftQ
SHA256: 0db2c439af9c86674a351f3c928eefe30e630d99b22cb183312dfdec4361a826

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2026] 2026. But, let's talk about what
  [2%] going to be 2% net and you're going to
  [1980] them, in the late 1980s. And so a lot of
  [2016] those in. We basically since 2016 the
  [1000] example it's $1,000 an acre to grow the
  [6%] get 6% a year, which has actually has
  [2009] 2009, but since then I've been in some
  [75%] 75% of fertilizer has already been
  [40%] prices are probably up 40%. The cost of
  [100000] lost $100,000. You farm 200,000 200 acre
  [200000] lost $100,000. You farm 200,000 200 acre
  [1031] community. We also have a 10 1031
  [15000] $15,000 an acre
  [10%] if you want 10% cap rate, you have to
  [1500] have a land rent of $1,500.
  [50000] $500 an acre, that is $50,000.
  [2.0] 2.0 even though they had already had the
  [1.0] experience of Trump 1.0 which also
  [15%] fully cured 15% moisture
  [2015] American Farm Bureau Federation. 2015
  [3.6] at 3 and 1/2, 3.6. So, as investors,

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
radio, news.
the Odd Lots podcast. [music] I'm Tracy
Alloway.
running joke on this podcast. There's a
few of them. But one of the running
jokes is farmers are always complaining
about something. They are. They are
always complaining about something. But
you know what? It's okay. We need to eat
to live. Food is pretty important for
sort of human civilization flourishing
etc. So if the worst is that they
complain a little bit about how much
they're getting for their corn or
whatever, I'm okay with that.
of the defining news stories of the past
few decades has been the hollowing out
of America's small-scale agricultural
industry and farmers. So if you are an
independent farmer, there is a lot to
complain about, to be fair. Totally. And
again, with the caveat that it's always
tough. Very recently, a couple weeks
ago, we did the episode about surging
fertilizer prices. In that conversation,
you know, we talked about the fertilizer
to corn chart and it is not a good
ratio, right?
represent an industry, but if you just
wanted one, that's a very clean way.
Fertilizer prices way up, obviously,
given the situation in Iran. Corn prices
not nearly anywhere close to their
all-time highs or anything like that. So
just by at least one measure, that is a
clear squeeze. Right. So we recorded our
fertilizer episode, I guess a week or
two ago at this point. I think at the
time when we were discussing it, the
possibility that the closure of the
Strait of Hormuz could actually push up
fertilizer prices. A lot of people
weren't necessarily that aware of this
dynamic. Since then, it has gone very
mainstream and you have officials in the
US government talking about sourcing
alternative fertilizer from Morocco or
Venezuela to try to offset some of the
pain. There is some slightly good news
if you are a farmer, which is that we
are seeing grain prices start to go up.
But to your point, again, it is not at
all clear that it's going to be enough
to offset higher input costs like
fertilizer or oil. Totally. Well,
anyway, you know, we did that episode
several weeks ago about what it was like
to do agribusiness in tough markets like
particularly Venezuela, Ukraine, and so
forth. And I recall at the very end of
that conversation, and this was
obviously before the fertilizer spike,
our guests who we were talking to said,
"We got a good history lesson about
Venezuela and Ukraine." But they also
said, "At some point we should talk
about the pain that American farmers are
in right now."
the condition, it was sort of this
tease, things weren't great. Then you
get the fertilizer spike. So it's like,
it seems like a good time to have that
conversation.
do that episode, but it turns out that
now is actually the perfect time for the
perfect guests. Once again, we are going
to be speaking with Jeff Kasan and Mike
Rothson. They are the founders of Agris
Academy. So Jeff and Mike, thank you so
much for coming back on All Thoughts.
Really appreciate it. First question,
you know, when we spoke to you last time
we were very focused on Venezuela and
Ukraine and your experience working at
Cargill earlier. But can you just tell
us what Agris Academy actually does?
Jeff, why don't we start with you?
Yeah, thanks for having us on again. So
Agris Academy is not a broker and
advisory business. Mike and I each have
30 years of in-depth either commodity or
involvement in the ag industry and we
decided we wanted to start an education
and consulting business. So we educate,
we have a producer practice um we
educate producers
on one level how to manage risk and
understand the future side of risk and
on another level how to merchandise like
a professional grain operation cuz a lot
of farms have become effectively
elevator managers. There There was a gap
and still is a tremendous knowledge gap
in farmers around the world. We
generally have North American students
and clients. And then we also have a
commercial business where we work with
businesses that work with various all
kinds of commodities where we help them
understand the risk, walk through how
they're consolidating that risk, how
they're managing that risk in the best
practice form in a boutique consulting
type of arrangement. So we have both
practices and a super rewarding business
kind of a second career for both of us
as we kicked it off. And we wanted to be
in a very differentiated part of the
market that wasn't well well covered.
And that's been a fantastic. We've been
in business now for 4 years and grow
very very steadily each year.
Mike, just in case anyone hadn't
listened to the episode with the two of
you before and just to sort of add on to
what Jeff was saying, just give us like
the quick your background, your bio, and
the long experience that you have had in
the ag space.
Yeah, about two-thirds of my career was
spent in Cargill doing an array of
commercial things mostly
in in risk management, trading, global
supply chain type of things. I got at
the end there after a stint actually
that Jeff and I both did through
their uh merger and acquisition and
corporate strategy group, I pivoted to
ventures.
Got hooked on that and I left Cargill in
2009, but since then I've been in some
sort of a ag tech oriented venture
capital oriented type thing in ag across
a array of topics, subsegments within
ag. Jeff and I have kicked this off for
about three and a half four years ago
now. So and one thing I think that helps
this conversation today is
through students or through more direct
relationships
almost 400 farms now in the US and
Canada. So, we definitely know the
vagaries of where this input situation
falls and who's positioned in
well or or or otherwise and what's
really going on when it hits the farm
gate. Yeah, so on that note, why don't
you tell us where we are in the sort of
agricultural calendar at the moment?
Because one of the things Yeah. we
learned from our previous fertilizer
episode is that fertilizer prices are
going up kind of right when people need
it most, which is the spring planting
season. But my understanding is some
people would be buying spot fertilizer
right now. Some people have already got
their supply secured. And I'm also very
curious about where we stand in terms of
planting decisions, whether people are
still making those right now or whether
or not people have already decided what
they're going to plant for the year.
Yeah, I guess I'll this Jeff and I'll
take this one on to start. So, when
we're really talking about a North
American farmer here, right? Towards the
end of the South American or South
Southern Hemisphere harvest, whether
that's generally Australia, Argentina,
uh Brazil. You know, we've already
started planting corn in places like
Texas, even into Mississippi. We have
clients that have already started. And
it was 8° in Minneapolis and we're not
even close here in the Upper Midwest.
So, a lot of the certain amounts of
nitrogen actually is put down actually
in the fall in the northern tier where
ground freezes and things kind of go
into a stasis for the winter. A fair
amount and we're really really talking
about nitrogen fertilizer here is
probably maybe the one that's giving the
world the most heartache at the moment.
Some of it's pre-bought, pre-positioned.
I would say the vast majority of what it
needs to be used in the US crop is
already either here in warehouses or on
its way.
Because you have to remember it's a long
supply chain. And if we're going to
plant in earnest starting in early April
into the what we would call the corn
belt, that product already has to be
here. So, you can see that in pricing,
the full, call it replacement price of
something like urea coming out of the
Arab Peninsula area, is not reflected in
US values. So, it's one of these you
generally as a trader would price
replacement, but full replacement is
actually not coming through at the
moment. I want to thank I don't know the
……（中部抽样）……
name some stone X people have been
northern hemisphere is already here.
and the figure they threw out, at least
relatively good news that a lot of it's
2026. But, let's talk about what
about this squeeze that's already sort
the people you're working with were
farming works in the US and give a
about the squeeze. If you look at
imagine a business since 2016 where your
have probably doubled. Right, equipment
that massive increase in prices
produce and in the big markets let's
Midwest corn. It is a tremendous driver
And you're in Central Illinois and
half your costs.
at the capital constraints.
trading like gold.
But that's represents if you think about
you get the promise that cap rates are
investors.
But it's gotten to such levels, right,
to continue to get appreciation at 6%
that has driven land rent, and I think
And if you think about, when you look go
subsidies, you can insure
life. So, very involved in this. And
And so, what that's done is it's really
Because they'll go the farmers will try
downside, and you have this hockey stick
number one cost, which is land price.
ground up to a zero margin, and then all
and now you're $100 an acre
to keeps small it gets to be big numbers
already agreed on land rents, you've
everything covered, it puts you into
A lot of those are going straight
make the payment on equipment or things
benefit of this you know, bridge payment
the various egg co and John Deere and
this last mechanism that Jeff described
And the reason I ask is because I read I
were actually in North Dakota, both of
whether a farmer can outright own the
themselves. And I think a lot of people
charge an extraordinarily high amount
renting? So at today's values, right?
owned land or look at the average kind
years. And so you see a lot of that. And
massive amounts Oh, yeah.
traded tremendous values and the farmers
light on this and you're going to pay
if you want 10% cap rate, you have to
rents that have been pushed as high as
would garner even garner that kind of
from its economic. So, then you're back
rack to, you know, renting out and quite
$500 an acre, that is $50,000.
buy some.
comment here, but we often hear they say
million acres a year, maybe more.
the technology and efficiency per acre
inflationary fact. How are farmers
The country quietly should be very proud
lowering its unit cost, and that's how
Mike?
Ukrainian war, it if you look at it
manner. And but the fact of the matter
just do. If you chart, I think the best
cattle recently. And if you do a
against gold, it's a stunning chart.
all of, you know, grains and proteins
can think of like a few different
that is. Second of all though, I imagine
last year and how changing trade
with China, right? Largest buyer of
prices actually rise in Brazil, right?
actually.
to keep the Brazilian honest.
to buy any US beans period, right?"
think the Brazilian beans probably lost
away too far away. The Chinese have
as far as and you can see they had a
not to be political is back when we
the
wait, talk to us more about what you
caused a flood of capital to pour in to
poured money into infrastructure to get
either do what I want or you'd go find a
challenge in what this trade dispute has
invest more in non-American farms to
of alternate sources outside of the US.
2.0 even though they had already had the
rationale for
loves tariffs in his own words.
call them bridge payments
with regulation in farming.
very burdensome and so there were a lot
there are a number of
of things to Canada milk is one of the
side
earth so one thing I can say if given
trade regulation trade barriers shall
the rules. They didn't get a say at the
has with waterways, transportation, rule
extremely competitive in the world.
What about our labor costs a factor or
In that example thousand Yeah.
are very labor intensive, it's
crops and quite frankly crops that
strawberries, lettuce, carrots, right?
of the immigration issue, too.
dried corn. Not dried corn.
told this story. Did I ever tell you
of the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur.
business in the world." He's like, "It
of like the nature of the trees, at
going to was such an important part of
talking about mechanized ways of
palm oil is the future. And yet you came
on what they're going to plant each
they would be considering future prices
are all the individual factors that go
economics, although I think farmers tend
forward-looking economics so far. Crop
parts of the country have a lot more
potentially a little bit of corn.
levels can you insure? You may grow a
get tremendous switches in most places
a 50 50 bushel an acre soybean for a 200
Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska because
ask about, which is like the decision to
until I read that book. But also, it
so, I'm reading stories on Agweek and
moves for two main reasons in terms of
America is that first sort of 90 days
decision. There's an approach we teach
think. So, their their actual drivers
market, especially when we were seeing
tremendous amount of physical grain has
Yeah, it's a that's a great question.
till it it grabs an incremental space.
salt mine somewhere, and then you get
caps out the value of space.
teach is how to utilize that space like
second. I'm looking at a chart from the
when they were doing the Farm Aid
did they wind up in that situation? I
Yeah, in our farm management practice
numbers are in there and we have a
even the mid-size dairy farm. So, you've
those with that livestock. It's hard to
way is really challenging. We don't see
don't see a lot of chapter 12. You don't
has been particularly difficult. We're
you would think would happen from
rarely, even in the last cycle, cuz
competitive where you can borrow money
right? That's a good spread. And there
into the land values. And that's that
heavily pulling back on operating notes
better balance sheets at the producer
a squeeze, but it's not remotely like
current situation,
intro, there are these push-pull factors
to hedge off some grain for new crop at
old crop, right? Which we talked about a
And you know, in that constant squeeze
we're in control. A number of suppliers
Oligopoly, right? And so you'll hear a
you put in trade barriers, you actually
……（接近结尾）……
relationships out to the farm, which
never had access to this type of
education. That's where our business
came in. Disciplined thought process
that their buyers use. If you look at
all the companies that have been around
forever in the commodity side, they're
all hyper-disciplined. They all share
the same culture and approaches and and
their hedgers. And and we we try to have
that
mindset bleed into the practice of our
students and clients.
All right. Jeff and Mike, thank you once
again for coming back on Odd Lots. Truly
the perfect guest at the perfect time.
So,
having us. Appreciate it. It's fun to
hear that, you know, we're in our New
York City apartments like doom scrolling
Sunday night futures and we're all doing
the same thing. The farmers out in the
middle of the country and those of us
who are all we're all looking at that
open. But um thank you so much. That was
a blast. You bet. [music]
Thank you.
interesting. And I feel like even though
we spoke for quite a while, we we've
still only scratched the surface. It's a
big topic, right? But one of the things
that stood out there was the importance
of land. Yes. Land costs and also
competition from abroad because I hadn't
really thought about that before. We are
used to hearing the phrase that buy
land, they're not making any any more of
it, but if you're deforesting Brazil or
Indonesia, it turns out you are making
more farmland. No, I thought that was a
great point. There's been a lot of
interest in reporting including from our
Bloomberg colleagues about specifically
Chinese agriculture investments in
Brazil and how much they're building up
that linkages. And so obviously still
today as they put it, you know, Trump
tries to
make some soybean sales and the American
farmer sort of has it they can play each
other off, discipline the Brazilian
farmer by buying some American beans,
etc. But
there is this really big farm ecosystem
that continues to grow, also continues
to get very productive. They're using
some of the top of the line Chinese
equipment which we know is very good.
And yeah, that's going to continue to
undercut the American exporter. Do you
think the farming evolution and the
productivity revolution is going to be a
good analogy for AI for everyone else
for the white collar working class?
is interesting.
There was actually something out
literally today. I think some hedge fund
put a thing like trying to push back
some of the doom scenarios and they're
like, oh, you know, we used to be so
much agriculture based then it went
away, but now we have other jobs, etc.
But that was like one sector, you know,
like I'm not very like I'm not very
comforted by any historical analogy
where the technology just applies to one
sector. They're like, oh, like bank
tellers didn't disappear after the ATM
was introduced. That was one technology.
replicated. So I'm not No, I'm not that.
I don't take too much comfort from that.
All right.
point is that the experience of
small-scale farmers could be coming to
all of us because it's it's just going
to be about scale and capital investment
and how big your tractor is. I know. All
right. Shall we leave it there? Let's
leave it there. This has been another
episode of the Odd Lots podcast. I'm
Tracy Alloway. You can follow me at
Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe Weisenthal.
You can follow me at The Stalwart.
Follow Mike and Jeff. They're at Agris
Academy. Follow our producers, Carmen
Rodriguez at Carmen Armon Dash at Dash
and Caleb Brooks at Caleb Brooks. And
for more Odd Lots content, go to
bloomberg.com/oddlots
for a daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/oddlots.
And if you enjoy Odd Lots, if you like
it when [music] we do these agricultural
episodes, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite podcast
are a Bloomberg subscriber, you can
listen to all of our episodes absolutely
ad-free. [music]
All you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcasts and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.