TITLE: Why Now is the Best Time to Buy Public Software Companies
CHANNEL: Invest Like The Best
DURATION_S: 3639  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-24T12:00:03+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0G1st54tRBI
SHA256: d103b65811c15001e02e2b921664267943cbf3549d5e0a3f6f7800798b0554fe

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [95%] retention for LPs. We want like 95%
  [9000] you know, talk to about 9,000 companies
  [10%] We'll buy 10%, 80% LPs out of a
  [15%] 10, 12, 15% position
  [70%] I think like 70% of them are in the
  [99%] reviews with 99% accuracy. And since
  [30%] and this can of Pepsi owns 30% of your
  [10000] 10,000 companies.
  [80%] We'll buy 10%, 80% LPs out of a
  [85%] 90% of our companies or 85% of our
  [60%] good way to invest. 50, 60% of our
  [12%] You're like that annihilates a 12% a 20%
  [2020] bunch of trouble in 20 in 2020 and 2021
  [2000] everybody in '99 and 2000 everybody
  [100%] what like 100%? Yeah, around there. So
  [90%] 90% of our companies or 85% of our
  [5%] Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no wonder
  [20%] You're like that annihilates a 12% a 20%
  [150%] revenue going 150% a year and it was
  [2021] bunch of trouble in 20 in 2020 and 2021
  [2001] in 2001 they
  [0.7] might be 0.7 X's. We try to our
  [0.8] you in in turn those zeros into like 0.8
  [0.1] X's or 0.1 X's,
  [2015] tw- like our 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
  [2016] tw- like our 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
  [2017] tw- like our 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
  [2018] tw- like our 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
  [1.6] and are instead making a 1.6x in 8
  [3.3] a 3.3 X in 18 months or 24 months.
  [25%] startups. Are you growing like 25% a
  [40%] wake up and find out 40% of my revenues
  [2%] Well, if you own 2% of Zoom and half the
  [1%] those shoes, I now own 1% of Zoom and if
  [75%] it's something like 75% of the time the
  [30000] 30,000 companies a year.
  [2009] I mean in 2009, 1999, 2000 when we sat
  [1999] I mean in 2009, 1999, 2000 when we sat
  [2024] 2020, if your budget in 2024 for 2026
  [2026] 2020, if your budget in 2024 for 2026

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
My guest today is Mitchell Green, the
founder of Lead Edge Capital. When I
think about Lead Edge, I sort of think
about this giant money machine that
Mitchell and his two partners have
designed over the last 15 plus years to
make remarkably consistent investment
returns for their clients. They have all
sorts of unique aspects to the machine
that they built, whether that's their
collection of LPs, their eight-point
criteria for how they select companies,
the way they do cold calls, the way they
construct their portfolio. This is just
a totally different way of approaching
markets. They're trying to hit singles
and doubles and deliver very consistent
returns. Mitchell says it's really
important in life to be memorable.
That's just a great simple thing that
you can do. I think you'll find
listening to Mitchell today and him talk
about his entire machine and the firm
that he's built that he himself is
extremely memorable. I hope you enjoy
learning about his business.
So, the first time that I heard about
Lead Edge Capital was was the very
famous list of what companies report,
starting with cash profits, and then if
they don't have cash profits, then you
go down this very funny list. Hierarchy
of [&nbsp;__&nbsp;]
And then the bottom one is the place
that's voted the best place to work in
New York City or something. Absolutely.
Where did that list come from? Why did
you put that together? We've always
found that the best way to communicate
with, you know, our audiences, which is
entrepreneurs,
and also our invest our LPs, our clients
effectively,
is to like write a quarterly letter
about a different topic. And I started
my career cold calling companies and
that's the way we source deals, but when
you start your career talking to I think
Brian and I probably spoke to like
10,000 companies.
And if if you want to know what's a good
company, just, you know, go go speak to
call 10,000 of them. You'll figure out
really quick. It's pretty good pattern
recognition. Until like our head of PR
comms came in a few years ago, we had
actually never posted any of these
things online. We joked that we sent
this letter to some people in the VC
community, one of which was like our
buddy at Andreessen Horowitz, and they
posted it online for us.
Um we just thought I think it's like a
very simple way like in a world where
people spout off total [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] all the
time, and like you see everything in
decks, this is just like a good way to
distill it. Talk to me about the 10,000
calls. So, what did you learn calling
that many companies? You learn to be
very disciplined actually, and you learn
that most things are actually just
noise, and to figure out like what makes
a Lead Edge company, and then try to
ignore everything else. You learn a lot
about like responsiveness of people and
like more I think more responsive CEOs
tend to be better CEOs. I think another
thing you learn that's really important
for young people, if you tell an
entrepreneur that you're going to
actually do something,
then actually do it. And in a world and
I think that's actually true of like in
life. Um there are so many people that
say they'll do they do things that just
like never do them. And so if you're
known as a as a firm and a or a person
that actually does what you say you're
going to do, it goes a long way. So, if
you tell an entrepreneur, "Hey, I know
somebody at
Adobe.
Do you want an intro cuz it looks like
it'd help your business?" And he says
and then he or she says, "I'd love to."
Well, then guess what? Follow up with
that like do what you say you're going
to do. Can you describe what seems to me
like I would call it a machine that is
Lead Edge much more than most investment
firms where a lot of great investors
will tell you there's a lot of art,
there's a lot of
um you know, everything's different.
Lead Edge feels to me like unbelievably
well constructed as a machine to produce
returns.
Um I'd love you to before we go into all
the details of the ask component aspects
of the machine, describe the machine
itself at a high level before I you
know, I I was going to go on a tangent.
We run this place like it's a software
company.
Um
my background was at Bessemer Uh, like I
worked for somebody that was extremely
disciplined. and was building a cold
climate program.
My other partner at Brian worked at
Bessemer. We were the first two cold
callers. And my other partner, Neema,
worked at Insight. And I think Insight,
and I know you know, Jeff Hawn was on
recently,
it it was one of the best like software
investment or invest technology
investment machines on the planet. So,
we've like modeled ourselves on that,
you know, to build a good
investment firm that stands the test of
time. If you want to go build the next
TA Associates or General Atlantic or,
you know, Bessemer or Sequoia, you just
have to be like extremely rigorous. And
so, our number one KPI that we run this
place by is what is our gross dollar
retention for LPs. We want like 95%
gross dollar retention. Because the only
way you can get that is one, have good
investment returns
and great client services. So, how do
you, through long periods of time,
across people that will come and go,
generate like world-class returns? Is
you need to have like a process. And the
process for us starts with,
you know, 18, 22 to 24-year-olds that,
you know, talk to about 9,000 companies
a year. You get those 9,000 companies,
like, how do you figure out which ones
to work on? So, then you need this like
framework
to guide these 18 people to like, "Well,
it's going to be an interesting
company." Because in the investment
business, like we have one
asset. It's time. And it's like
precious. And so, like how do you guide
people to say no quick? And so, we built
this framework that we really took from
coming out of Bessemer. And so, like
they helped build the Bessemer five. We
took the Bessemer five, turned it into
Lead Edge eight, and it's like drives
everything we do. Now, when we find the
company, we're then super creative.
We'll buy 10%, 80% LPs out of a
20-year-old fund, buy employee
secondary, you know, fund somebody's CV.
We don't care. We'll do anything. If I
think about the two sides being the LPs
and the companies that you invest in,
I'll come back to the eight criteria.
The LP story that you have is also quite
distinct and different. Can you describe
that in a lot of detail? Sure.
Our LP base is all like world-class
execs and entrepreneurs.
Um and then we do have some big
institutions, but 95% of our capital is
like all these world-class execs and
entrepreneurs. And
we use these LPs
throughout the entire investment life
cycle. It literally starts with
sourcing. If a company won't call us
back, we'll we'll email our LPs to
Let's say it's like an automotive
software company. We'll have Rick
Wagoner, the former CEO of GM,
who's a long-time investor.
We will be like, "Will you send them
like the CEO a note?"
And if you're like an automotive
software CEO and the former CEO of
General Motors calls you, like, they're
way more likely to take an email than
like my any knucklehead email and I'm a
a 22-year-old emailing them.
Then for due diligence, we'll say, "Hey,
this is like a you're a healthcare
software company, you're 25 million in
revenue. Maybe you say like biotech or
pharmaceutical software. It's like, "Oh,
I see Pfizer's a customer. How big is
it?" 2 million bucks. Could it be
bigger? Oh, it could be 10 million.
We'll meet the former CEO.
And then I'll call up Ian Read and be
like, "Hey, Ian,
can you like talk to this company?
They'd love to talk to you. Oh, by the
way, can you like tell us what you
think? And then if it's super
interesting, could you like call could
you call Pfizer and like back channel
it?"
And then you might say to the
entrepreneur, "Hey, I don't see Biogen
as a customer. Would you want to meet
……（中部抽样）……
the former CEO?" So then you call up
And it turns out all these people invest
a huge amount of my time running around
that the returns in this sector, in the
And I had the pleasure of working for
I
was like, I'll hire you as a
In a world that's super crowded and
these executives. Yeah.
it on a curve.
think we've only lost all of our money
and a quarter X net
them. So if we've made something a 7,
Doubles doubles and triples.
very little leverage in the portfolio,
Now you you may get it wrong. Like you
the management team so you're making
secondaries. We will buy secondaries. We
the next decade.
thing. We meet We think a lot of firms
the sell than most like venture growth
talk about it. Like, "Hey,
us when there's a liquidity op-
tw- like our 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018
reverse happened in '20 and '21.
thought they were going to make, you
engagement. Ramp does the exact
Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no wonder
designed to support how Wall Street
workflows, how work really happens
built by finance professionals for
achieve enterprise adoption at scale,
of the top AI teams you hear about
presumably it's easiest to sell in
your sales into everyone else's excited
You're like that annihilates a 12% a 20%
in a secondary sale, it's about
it. And before the IPO we had sold 180
somebody is paying us a price in the
Um, and so it's like constantly
Are you 10 million plus in revenue?
plus gross margins.
Facebook, you know, gives away like, you
It's like a heck of a lot easier to
It It's like our version of return on
Like, you know, every other tech company
less than your revenues,
wake up and find out 40% of my revenues
sounds like a private equity strategy.
10 to 25. So we just try to build like a
trouble today and all this AI stuff
wrong like some of our companies have
shorthand where
a price.
are worth like much at all. But I'm
companies in public markets.
biotech and pharma companies. This isn't
if Microsoft took 500 people
the tax the tax software market for a
game to lose
I'm sorry, it's like 10 billion of
implementing the software.
Dave Duffield and Aneel realized 20
to build Workday.
sold to Toma Bravo. So what I actually I
yeah, we can drive all our companies to
and and is now I I worry that a bunch of
everybody in '99 and 2000 everybody
Target. I mean, Saks is a crappy
like over levered, didn't innovate. So
public software names. By the way, when
lows and doesn't grow and trades at 15
needs to have like these six things. You
available.
that like is they're like half the LPs
price for access. We made a big
buy it cuz Sequoia would roll for you.
backed by a bunch of random Chinese
want to sell and we can do it one of two
Well, if you own 2% of Zoom and half the
181 of the IPO after lockup, you got to
was actually in Notre Dame with Mom as
70% is special sits or like secondary.
week and literally we just all have to
company that has six of the eight
deal versus like a five criteria deal,
to seven deals a year, it just doesn't
that meet five of our criteria.
sell my business tomorrow." Like, "Oh,
know, Bessemer or Battery. And they're
build a relationship with somebody. So,
to a small
Like, yes, you can hit a ball 2 in above
biggest mistakes have honestly been not
to know whether or not it's an
People love to talk. Um,
that's like failure. And so, you're
of sale system space. I read a bunch of
by the way, we're we're different than a
Sure, love to chat. By the way, we used
Today, it's like, "Oh, come on. You guys
phones.
power of knowledge and you can sound
I'm not that fast. More like yeah. Oh
three and a half billion. Okay. So a
decade? Like how do you hope the machine
when nobody wanted to do CVs. We didn't
these names are so liquid. So actually
like personally excited about the
should tell everybody about it and
curve and like make that customer intro
We are in a control position about a
you have a lot of different people
sold. Like there's these late stage guys
a business and when we exit,
if I'm not the right CEO, well, then
doing this and especially given this is
entrepreneur, every company. Guess who
treated. People appreciate that and it
lot of work Nima and Brian and like our
processes in place.
something you do that like really helps
other partner, every VP, every
And by the way, let's figure out what
Three.
"Come on, we need to build consensus."
like being the nice guy gets you the
And so like if you're a 25-year-old
in front of LPs. I'm like, "If you're
your age. Like Would you Would you I
lacrosse." You just build really real
maybe there's different buckets than
I probably spend
my time is investing related, which
15 20% is operational. The operational
became our COO. So, that's like my time.
probably
Barrons as someone that you've learned
Insight have just built like a factory.
it. TA is one that like pioneered cold
like today is actually pretty similar.
that I think actually adds a lot of I
gets more complex, especially your
source of truth for compliance and risk.
stack is for asset management firms. And
reporting, trading, compliance, and more
What have we missed about what makes the
think that's what makes the machine like
at.
the three of us. But then we like
and talk about it. If you listen to like
this deal. Can you riff a little bit
going to do it in ways that nobody can
don't we know? Like what is this like
it'll be pretty damn close. That's
that we're not even thinking about how
whether it's internally at Lead Edge or
aren't going to find jobs. It's like no,
score? And then it's okay, this
be able to leverage AI?
strongly believe that if you think in
you compete with?
Like I was not going to pay 100 times
happened. So like capital's everywhere,
decompose and expand on that a little
Uh in a way I just think people are it's
overspend. I think I'm convinced that
is going into these companies and what
That's when you're going to buy it.
curious how you think about Yeah, when
Facebook and Amazon and Apple have a
things cost a fraction of the cost to
we worry the most about model
happening that um
it's just that that's a struggle that's
infrastructure software. Like um and
early investors in Grafana Labs
……（接近结尾）……
Griffin and Steve Cohen are like
mentors, LPs of ours.
Like those those guys have built like
it's incredible how hard those people
work. Like now again, maybe these are
NF2 people, but like or if you look at
some of these like tech entrepreneurs,
that are like an Elon Musk or Alex Karp
from Palantir or Matt Prince from, you
know, Cloudflare or like George Kurtz
from CrowdStrike. Like these people are
incredibly driven, like hard working
people that like live and breathe what
they do. And so yeah, I mean, people
keep score.
But But you have But I have like it's
not work for me. This is fun. I travel
constantly.
And like to meet companies, to meet LPs,
to meet entrepreneurs, to like meet
bankers. And like people are like, "Your
schedule like Tell people my schedule
and they like cry. I'm like, "No, it's
not It's not work. It's fun." It's
pretty amazing what you've built. Uh
very unique model, incredibly fun. I
love when you are to just walk us
through it all. I had so much fun doing
this. When I do these interviews, I ask
everyone the same closing question.
What's the kindest thing that anyone's
ever done for you?
Pete Willmott.
He's passed away. Was the former
um CEO of FedEx. And he was a Williams
alum. I started a company in college,
and he was like the first person that
ever believed in me. I was like 18, 19
years old. And he became an investor
with us. And the company completely
failed. And he probably, when I was
trying to get my first jobs, and when he
got my job at Bessemer, he was my
reference. And he basically told the
person they were insane if they didn't
hire me, cuz I was the most persistent
person he ever met. I learned so much
today about building something unique.
Thanks so much for your time.
Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back,
using AI to automate 85% of expense
reviews with 99% accuracy. And since
Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no wonder
that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs
on Ramp, and my business does too. To
see what happens when you eliminate the
busy work, check out ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm. OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic,
Perplexity, and Vercel all have
something in common. They all use
WorkOS. And here's why. To achieve
enterprise adoption at scale, you have
to deliver on core capabilities like
SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs. That's
where WorkOS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
of them on day zero. That's why so many
of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the
fastest way to become enterprise ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit workos.com to get
started. Every investor should know
about Rogo, because Rogo AI's platform
is not just another generic chatbot.
Instead, it was designed to support how
Wall Street bankers and investors
actually work, from sourcing, diligence,
and modeling to turning analysis into
deliverables. For me, three key things
differentiate Rogo. First, it connects
directly to your system, so it can work
with your actual data. Second, it
understands your workflows, how work
really happens across a deal or an
investment. And third, it runs
end-to-end and produces real outputs the
way the best people do, auditable
spreadsheets, investment memos,
diligence materials, and slide decks
that match your standards. This all
comes from the fact that Rogo is built
by finance professionals for finance
professionals, and it's already being
adopted by some of the most demanding
institutions in the world. To learn
more, visit rogo.ai/invest.