TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/9/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8624  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-09T14:46:09+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=La1FKXMqRSM
SHA256: bf995f03f73f134066685a628a612cc65d79c0709d961f076451db6d162c9a10

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] Equity futures negative just 1% on the
  [2022] invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Before
  [2%] Russell down by close to 2% Brammo so
  [12%] by 12% on Brent, 104 off the highs on
  [1.2] by 1.2. Omni Russell small caps
  [14%] they're expecting about 14% growth each
  [5%] for GDP at 2 and a.5% pretty wholesome.
  [3%] 3% in the pre-market after dropping
  [2000] at Gulf States. Uh more than 2,000
  [2026] 2026 and 2027 earnings estimates,
  [15%] tariffs under section 122 to 15% this
  [29%] 29% overnight and off those highs now up
  [50%] of them. Up nearly more than 50% in the
  [13%] A 13% move in energy at the heart of
  [2025] move over the course of 2025 much of it
  [10%] 10% gain versus something more in the
  [28%] WTI, Brent crude up 28% last week, up
  [30%] it'd be uh you know, north of 30% for
  [1.8%] 1.8%. You've got the underperformance in
  [0.9%] lows well off session lows down by 0.9%
  [0.9] on the S&amp;P on the NASDAQ down by 0.9.
  [8%] negative 0.8% 8% on the S&amp;P 500 on the
  [7%] international down 7% from the high is
  [25%] line of 25% a gain in oil prices. Look,
  [2019] In 2019, he was placed under US
  [42%] is still at about 42%. You haven't seen
  [2027] 2026 and 2027 earnings estimates,
  [9%] inflation hit 9%. So, we could have an
  [46%] market has a 46% odds right now of a US
  [11950] out at the highs pushing 120 11950
  [1.14] likewise on the NASDAQ by 1.14 on the
  [1.4] petroleum up by 1.4. From New York City
  [1990] since the 1990 Gulf War when it comes to
  [10564] Brink crude high by 14% 10564 WTI 10320.
  [10320] Brink crude high by 14% 10564 WTI 10320.
  [80%] 80% and they do think that they are
  [1979] you saw in 1979. The fact that the
  [13.4%] now 13.4% higher on Brent crude. WTI up
  [8.4%] morning. Currently up 8.4% in the
  [1.7] well. We're down by 1.7 on small caps.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
The market has been driven by what's
happening globally.
equities.
be monitored and likely priced
oil. We are going to have that backdrop
continuing around earnings growth. The
underlying fundamentals are still pretty
positive and people want to own this
equity market. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, oil hits triple digits.
they will. They'll also come down.
bit of fear premium in the marketplace.
This is a short-term disruption for the
long-term gain.
crude through 100, pushing G7 officials
to consider releasing energy reserves as
neither the US or Iran is showing signs
of backing down. We begin this hour with
our top story. The price of oil surging
following a weekend of escalatory
strikes. Iran continuing to target
several Gulf nations. Israel beginning
to target energy infrastructure, heaping
pressure on G7 officials who according
to people familiar with the matter are
set to discuss a possible joint release
of crude reserves. That discussion
happening later this morning.
seeing oil at 120 this morning. It has
come down to about $100 a barrel, only a
10% gain versus something more in the
line of 25% a gain in oil prices. Look,
this has only been carried out five
times before. this idea of a coordinated
release twice in response to Russia's
invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Before
that, you had Libya as well as hurricane
uh Katrina as well as during the first
Gulf War. This would be something that
is a fairly rare step, but it highlights
the sphere of disruption that you're
seeing right now when it comes to such a
key market and how this really does seem
to threaten global economy.
right now, the only push back we've
seen, the only blinking if we can call
it there from G7 officials. The
president's not backing down. This quote
from him over the weekend, short-term
oil prices, which will drop rapidly when
the destruction of the Iran nuclear
threat is over, is a very small price to
pay.
are believing that if you take a look at
the forward contract of oil, you can see
that people don't expect there to be
this prolonged bout of oil prices above
$100 a barrel. It is priced in that by
December they'll be back down to $80 a
barrel. People are expecting this to be
over in a couple of weeks. The mechanism
to trigger that end, that off-ramp, is
potentially the markets. And yet, the
markets are not displaying a sense that
there is abject fear of truly an economy
globally that's going to get disrupted.
So, a real question about why this
dissonance exists and how long it can
continue.
at right now. Because if you check out
the European bond curve, check this out.
Over in the UK, yields up at the front
end of the curve by 20 basis points.
Similar moves across the continent as
well. We're pricing out cuts. with
pricing and hikes as set on central
banks.
hikes. And that's because there are two
rate hikes now being priced into uh the
ECB in terms of the forward-looking uh
calendar for this year. There is one
hike being priced in for the Bank of
England. So again, it's fascinating. Is
this just a single mandate central bank
where they have to look at inflation and
counter that? At what point does some of
the weakness that we've seen in a number
of economies and what could transpire as
a result of oil prices start to play
into exactly how they respond? We've
thrown a lot of this market in the last
week, haven't we? Just in an hour on
Friday, a energy shock, a payroll shock,
and another shock in private credit.
how uh multifaceted people keep saying
it is. How there are parts of the
complex, whether it's oil, whether it's
materials that'll benefit from this that
can offset potentially the shock to
private credit or what we're seeing with
respect to uh the economy. I just wonder
at what point you see a pillar that
shakes. At what point this is just
people who don't want to sell their
stocks because ultimately they don't
want to have to buy them back at a
higher price and they have been
conditioned by buy the dip, buy the dip,
buy the dip and suddenly they can't even
recognize something that's staring them
in their faces.
Sunday evening. Wild ride for crude.
Equity futures negative just 1% on the
S&amp;P 500. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth with global markets selling off.
Henry betrays the faded partners as
President Trump downplays rising crude
costs and Sabbatra Japper of Sockjen as
inflation fears steer investors away
from bonds. Our team coverage starts
right now with Bloomberg's Jamaa Beti
joining us out of Dubai. Jamala, welcome
to the program. What's the latest in the
region right now?
signs at all that things are
deescalating and if anything uh
intensifying militarily operations on
both sides. I will say that the
appointment of the new supreme leader is
an act of defiance out of Iran. As you
know, uh the son of Ali Kam has now been
appointed as the successor, the third
supreme leader of Iran. Uh he's quite
literally cut off the same cloth of his
father. Uh same ideology. He's perceived
to be very close to the revolutionary
guard court, the IGC, very entrenched
with the security establishment as well.
In 2019, he was placed under US
sanctions and has also been accused of
interfering with elections and being
involved in many of those brutal
crackdowns that we've seen on
demonstrators. So, you know, if you tie
it back to what President Trump was
saying over the weekend that he would
like to see a full and unconditional
surrender, this is not an appointment
that would suggest that the Iranian
regime or the Islamic Republic are
looking to surrender or to yield to the
US demands anytime soon. At the same
time, operations continue. uh IDF saying
that they st they struck 400 targets
over the last 24 hours. And Iran
continues lashing back at uh Israel and
at Gulf States. Uh more than 2,000
projectiles have been fired towards Gulf
States over the course of the weekend uh
since the beginning of the war, I should
say, but over the course of the weekend
continue to target key sites and energy
infrastructure. Just this morning,
another refinery from the region in
Bahin also declared force measure. Uh
they've had multiple attempts at
targeting an oil field in Saudi Arabia.
The US State Department is now ordering
non-essential personnel to leave um the
the US embassy in Saudi Arabia. More
intercepted missiles being directed at
the UAE. Reports of a fire earlier in
Fujera as well. And then in Bahin also
and this is one other point of
escalation. A desalination plant was
targeted. Now, it did cause damage, but
the messaging from the authorities is
that water supplies are still running.
But again, it just um really illustrates
the amount of economic cost that the
Iranian regime are looking to inflict,
not just on the region, but on the
global economy as well.
concerning escalation over the weekend.
Jamanna, thank you. Jam Beti in Dubai.
Just to build on what Jamanna was
talking about there, Iran doubling down
on hardline leadership and also reports
over the weekend suggesting the
president is considering a special
ground operation as well
there in terms of the refined uranium
that a lot of people were worried could
get developed into nuclear weaponry.
This is the question, how far is this
president willing to go and is that the
red line, the ability of eliminating uh
that uranium threat?
morning. Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth writing the following. We expect
equity market volatility to continue.
……（中部抽样）……
Weakness is viable. Gone are the days of
great buying opportunities when we see
27, I think that's one of the things
payrolls, energy supply, private credit
to see breadth begin to deteriorate. So
gallon. We saw overall headline US
falling oil prices. We've had a boost to
modern history. The latest from Missouo
there. You're seeing a little bit of
answer is well it seems less likely
President Trump saying oil surge is a
production. in the street of Hermuz
stockpile. John, as you well know, uh,
of $4 gasoline are being pulled forward.
getting a crypto bill. I don't think
Leadership can't pull it off. So when
from the oil markets is starting to
readjust your expectations, reset. Um
energy prices. Indeed, it was the
headlines as well from the Treasury.
said before, cover every single base
less dependent on Russia, on oil sources
and engage with Iran in the way it has
watching Bloomberg TV.
On one hand, the US economy is more
in the Europe session for the likes of
crossing the terminal earlier on that it
discuss the joint release of reserves as
posting on social media that the crude
they're still considering a special
term, putting upward price pressure on
processes uh you know is is not there.
though you could have similar to 2022
this. I was really struck by how many
rate cut at the next meeting based on
there. Now there's much more concern
it'd be uh you know, north of 30% for
it comes to private credit and the need
since the 1990 Gulf War when it comes to
scenario emerges.
erupting during an anti-Islam protest.
22 the pandemic of 20. This its own
falling into a correction from the from
to energy prices. So, you get a double
process that takes time. When you start
persist. A stagflation-like environment
typically when you tend to see stocks
pretty dramatic change in the outlook
in the very front end. That's what you
We would have been talking about the
year, it was about tariffs. It was it
prices, especially if you look at the
cut oil output as storage fills up.
result of storage facilities filling up.
Arabia has started to reduce crude
Equity futures negative by 1% on the S&amp;P
will it last?
currently uh being reflected?
that's available to them of reported
targeting ships and vessels passing
sort of trend lower with your production
for any of the particular parties
about many times, it's going to depend
obvious things that are going to happen
anything, but it's more that is this
So, it's going to be interesting to see
and more worried about those longer term
what's going to happen because of AI in
talked about private credit. Blackstone,
and that's the kind of things that
sooner than maybe otherwise would take
credit on energy on the economic
story if it's a broader economic issue.
the UAE, Kuwait, and Iraq. Elsewhere,
there. You're seeing a little bit of
limiting it in response to storage
So maybe they can announce something at
a quick resolution to the Middle East
ministers meet, as you've been
to widen the war. We heard from
United States is obviously that this
forward. So I do think there's obviously
regime change is going to be the biggest
80% and they do think that they are
this is a they both I think see this as
could obviously become something that
rise up in that way. Um, and so that was
opposition leader who could actually
lower on the S&amp;P 500 by around 1%
what point do you see demand destruction
and bow two hours away. Let's get you
HIMS didn't stop marketing and selling
update. Some of the movers out there to
months ago.
months ago, targeted, limited in nature.
damaging certain desalination plants.
The Russell 2000 underperforming. Let's
less attractive or less exciting asset
safest place in that risk asset
environment But I do want to mention
the way our portfolios are constructed,
there massive draw downs in some of the
busters and there's a feeling that
would vote for rate cuts uh over the
key. Kate, thank you. Kate Moore there
going to be conundrum because it's going
releasing reserves. It all comes down to
Penny Wong, declining to say exactly
important is to defang their ability to
mentioned the airlines. They're in a
twos. And that is about monetary policy.
Hormuzz.
going to be here for a long time. I
but understand, you know, countries that
leadership for a long time. You're
you know this this military effort kind
incredibly easy for Iran to send drones
in on a chopper to a tanker, right?
happening globally.
The main event now for us in the next
not bouncing back. And you can look at
question here. I was looking at our top
shock and people are expecting monetary
sinking as the spiking crude is rattling
where we're still penciling in Fed rate
the administration was going to be
perfectly in, you know, everything
market there's still 6.5 trillion, close
But I don't see a lot of liquidity on
ticker in the world. And if you look at
maybe slowly um quickly on certain days,
been a good idea. Every year you've
After March of 2000, you saw these
going on that speaks to potentially a
elsewhere this morning. Here is your
occurring at an anti-Islam protest.
the labor market. But I think inflation
reiterating that and having a similar
through the straight of what will happen
price action here in your morning calls.
President Esther George writing with oil
This is a consumer that has felt the
price shock and the energy market will
better backdrop to meet this price
that. And I think the calculus around
right now are are in conflict. They are
fast relative to uh the growth levels
hot readings. Does that leave the Fed in
exposed to the energy story oil and oil
very exposed to energy prices are
again this is to no surprise are the
expectations index. What do people think
income and spending, durable goods, GDP,
news for them than it is for us at the
this headline just crossed. I want to
Ukraine in a better spot with the United
would be looking for some ways to help
potential naval escort. And then lastly,
for you and the team with your outlook
18th. March 18th, of course, the next
nervous about the the labor market
so I think they have to be a little bit
the United States, whether that alone is
especially given you know where markets
that won't go towards some of the
……（接近结尾）……
that the market hasn't quite priced in
if you're having like a panic in the oil
market, you need to also have the panic
in the equity market to say, "Okay, all
in the
because everyone's saying there will be
there will be." That's the problem,
right? So, but at what point, right? I
mean, it's sort of this interesting
thing and yet it's not ever getting
there, I guess, because people are all
expecting it to be a great buying point.
I mean, what is going to be the trigger
one way or another? I like I think you
have to kind of probably get to 6,500 on
the S&amp;P here, which I think is probably
likely only because the if if the energy
if we're we're keeping with energy
prices over a hundred for a week or two,
at some point we're going to have a a
reaction to that. But again, we see it
as temporary. Now, what's the risk? What
I just said, everybody thinks the
administration is going to have to claim
victory at some point if oil prices stay
over 100 for long enough. And that the
risk is everybody's expecting some sort
of backtracking and then of course you
get some sort of financial contagion. We
don't see it yet. We don't see it yet.
But this is kinetic war and and things
can change. We have not changed our
asset allocation. We have not changed
our view. But we are being very flexible
in how we look at things.
Triple digit crude is temporary. $90
crude is temporary. $80 crude is
temporary. Do you think we actually go
back to where we were? That's really my
question this morning. Even after a
period of deescalation, does this energy
market go back to where it was or has
something changed because of this
development conditioned by the Chinese
who got this right, who stockpiled
energy for the last 12 months just in
case something like this happened?
Doesn't everyone else need to do the
same thing even when this normalizes?
What's your time frame here on the other
side of this with Venezuela and Iran out
of the sort of axis of evil as it used
to be called? You know, we're in a we're
in a better supply.
outcome ultimately for crude?
crude and bullish for consumers and
bullish for industrial and bullish for
markets overall. Yes.
tipping point.
some point. Can't tell you when that is,
but you know, if you look out, let's
call it a year, then we're in a better
place.
think about. Alicia Lavine of BNY
Wealth, not the only one who considers
this moment that way that ultimately
things have changed and maybe they
change for a more bearish outcome for
crude compared to where we were before
this conflict.
president has raised himself. The idea
that if you do have more stability in
the region, should this lead to some
sort of resolution, you actually have
more production. And guess what? the US
is going to be producing that much more
because when prices stay above a certain
point all those oil rigs can start
turning on the tap. So it's going to be
an interesting dynamic with a lot of
whipsaws ahead.
completely differently. It's a very very
different view on what this moment means
for this energy market.
insurance premium based in the fact that
shipping on seas suddenly has new risk
and you have to start to look at that
geopolitics uh degree in a different
way. It's it's something that we keep
coming back to. I would love to talk
with him more about that.
Sunday evenings when it comes to
financial markets?
every Sunday night since we have started
2025. So I guess on one hand, what is it
about Sunday night that always gets me
glued to my terminal?
begins in March.
forecasts looking ahead to the year
ahead. January, everyone gets together
and talks about it. You get to March and
everything resets.
tomorrow. David Tinsley of Bank of
America, Kevin Foley of JP Morgan,
Abigail W of UBS, Jim Karen of Morgan
Stanley from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Looking forward to
tracking these major ruptures with you
all week from New York City. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.