TITLE: Henry Blodget on the Software Selloff Hysteria and the Problem for OpenAI | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 2704  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-08T23:08:18+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E9DxWacNRVE
SHA256: ac07122f8bb591e5b65d1b0bc8cdb8541237c02faad13ec2204dc2276fd185d0

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1990] a lot like the internet in the 1990s.
  [2015] 2015.
  [2026] Fest 2026.
  [2000] first time I used Google in 2000, I
  [2028] 2028 where everything had become AI, and
  [10%] of the report says, "10% unemployment,"
  [90%] which means 90% employment. Most of us
  [93%] to industrial, 200 years ago, 93% of us
  [2%] worked on farms, now it's 2%. That's a
  [2.0] the web 2.0 era, where there was like
  [9090] Okay, but let's go back to the 9090s,

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
radio, news.
Hello. Hello. Hello. Welcome to On Air
Fest 2026.
Thank you so much. I'm Kristen Meinzer.
I'm your MC for the day. And in case you
don't know who I am, I'm a podcaster,
I'm a royal watcher, I'm a culture
critic. I've been very busy over the
last week with some royal news you may
have heard of. So, um, you may know me
from those things. But today is not
about me. It is about the fantastic
talent that is going to be on the stage
and at this festival. Let's get to our
first live taping of the day,
Bloomberg's Odd Lots podcast. The host
of Odd Lots are Joe Weisenthal and Tracy
Alloway. Please welcome them to the
stage along with their very special
guest, Henry Blodget. Thank you so much.
Welcome to the stage.
welcome to a live episode of the Odd
Lots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal. And
I'm Tracy Alloway. Tracy, we're
definitely not going to do this,
but it definitely feels like almost
every episode could be about AI these
days, right? Like it's just touching so
all the things we talk about are
suddenly getting subsumed into this
topic that we're not going to do it, but
we probably could. It's not just that
every episode could be on AI, it's that
every episode could probably be made by
AI at this point, right? And in fact,
we've had a few people last year, I
remember there were a few people who
made AI-generated episodes of the
podcast and they weren't that bad. And I
have to think if they did it today, they
would be even better. They would
definitely be better. Anyway, not better
than us, but they would be better than
they were a year ago. I'm not so sure.
They'd be better than they were a year
ago. Anyway, so we have to talk about AI
and what it's doing to the market,
finance, economics, etc. And of course,
we have to talk about what it means for
us in the media industry. And I'm really
excited to say we do have the perfect
guest. We're going to be speaking here
with Henry Blodget, the CEO of
Regenerator. He used to be my boss when
I was at a Business Insider. Someone who
has a background in both media and, of
course, Wall Street and finance. So, the
perfect person to talk about all the
different dimensions here. Truly the
perfect guest. All right, Henry. Thank
you so much for coming back on
Thank you for having me. So,
uh the last time we talked to you was in
May of last year. And the theme then was
everyone was talking about here these
huge valuations for AI companies. How
can they possibly be justified? And that
was an interesting conversation. And it
feels like the narrative has now flipped
180° where it's like these companies are
so powerful, they're going to destroy
every other company in their wake, and
every software company and payment
provider, etc., has been like plunging
really since the start of the year. How
have you like updated your views? Where
are you now versus where you were in,
say, May? We are early in the
development of the industry. This looks
a lot like the internet in the 1990s.
For those of you who remember, basically
when you have a huge opportunity like
this, early on, you can have a huge
range of reasonable predictions about
what is going to happen. And here we One
day, it's catastrophe. None of us are
ever going to have a job again.
Everything's going to crater. Other
days, hey, it's just a fancy word
processor. No worries. OpenAI's way
overvalued. I will say that since we
talked last, I believe that we were
aghast at the OpenAI $300 valuation. I
believe the latest one is $800 billion.
So, we are climbing, but there are other
companies out there that are worth many
times that. So, if one does think that
AI is going to take over the world and
OpenAI is the Google of the AI era,
which is the thesis, which I think is
very misguided, that we can get into,
then one can imagine that a company
might be worth many multiples of some of
the companies that are out there. So,
one of the crazy things that happened
this week, speaking of AI and media, is
there's a guy, we've had him on the
show, James Van Geelan, aka Citrini. He
runs a hedge fund, also publishes an
investment newsletter. He basically
wrote a doom case scenario of the year
2028 where everything had become AI, and
because everything was AI, no one had
any jobs, no one was actually buying
anything in the economy, and we
basically had an economic and financial
crisis. When I wrote that piece and then
saw the market reaction to it, so stocks
fell pretty dramatically and people were
attributing it to basically a newsletter
that was a thought piece,
I thought that was kind of insane. And
it speaks to what you just said, which
is when we're in this really uncertain
time, you can go from sort of euphoria
to doomerism very, very quickly.
We're all looking into the hazy future
saying, "How big is it going to be?"
These small changes in your assumptions
make a huge difference in the current
value. I will say, because that research
report was both heralded and pilloried,
this is exactly what you want analysts
to do. You want them to look out and
take a strong position and say, "Here's
what it can look like." And it I thought
it was a fascinating report. I will
point out that even though, as you just
characterized it, that this is economic
Armageddon, one of the first sentences
of the report says, "10% unemployment,"
which means 90% employment. Most of us
still have a job. And yes, there changes
in industries, but most of us are still
working. So, I was surprised after
hearing about, "It just predicts
catastrophe,"
that I picked it up. It's like, "Well,
no, it predicts a big technology change
that sometimes takes the economy a while
to digest, but not Armageddon."
What do you think though it says like
about the market right now? I mean, and
it's kind of an interaction of a market
story and a media story because here's a
Substack piece that really did seem to
move the market quite a bit on Monday,
right?
environment that people cuz it's all
year, right? The software the software
stocks have been getting clobbered all
year and
our AI agents and maybe we'll get into
that going to somehow make it so we
don't need to buy regular business
software anymore. I don't totally
understand it, but this has been the
fear all year. What does it sort of say
about the market media
environment that a Substack piece like
this could just go absolutely mega viral
like that and move the market? Everybody
is twitchy.
Valuations were high to begin with.
We're all reevaluating our views every
day saying, "Am I crazy thinking it
could be this? Maybe I'm crazy. I have
to panic a little bit." So,
we've seen stocks roll over, the
multiples are compressing a little bit.
Again, so far from Armageddon. It's
people saying, "Okay, there may be some
change here." And to your point, the big
bear case now is that, "Oh my goodness,
Claude Code is so good, no one will ever
buy software anymore. You'll just say,
'Hey, make me the software.'"
I've done that. Yeah. You have, you're a
big experimenter, but I would say you
were probably not spending billions of
dollars on enterprise software before
and
I don't have like thousands of people on
my payroll who are like they need to get
it in Friday, you know?
things about having a company standing
behind a product is you actually can
hold them accountable for it and maybe
Claude Code doesn't make your enterprise
software that you want you want.
Somebody doesn't get paid. So, as I hear
that, to me that is hysteria. I don't
understand it. Software companies are
not going away. Companies that are not
in the software business are not going
to suddenly say, "Oh, let's have a
junior person who understands AI build
all our software for us." It is not
going to happen. But, overall, big
change is coming, lots of disruption. Do
……（中部抽样）……
we know for sure what that's going to do
Monday, everybody was feeling suddenly
active and influential in a previous
on this particular one? AI versus
comes back even more strongly, that
agentic system that actually gets out in
to industrial, 200 years ago, 93% of us
operators, with steam engines, you look
overall, so far in history, has gone on
jobs are going to be created. Well, this
difficulty with AI is that it's hard to
less than a minute?
Where are we?
right-sizing themselves. As you say, I
But some people have said that Google
Joe and Tracy. Like this sounds this
and more about is oh you got to listen
make the show. We're still recording it
with you guys cuz they love you and your
is he throwing it away, right?
people might not have the same affinity
question. It also relates to the piece
the piece stipulates, and I think it
Claude with almost no issues and it's
another search engine.
defined the last 25 years of the
you?
It's going to know everything about you.
made me think they were in trouble, and
it's better. Yeah, they passed them."
Amazon was very controversial. A lot of
or whatever. Walmart and Barnes &amp; Noble
less than 2 years after the product
years, all of us, including me, were
that went public in the 1990s?
to its stock price. eBay did okay for a
a great idea, we all want it, and
destroyed it. So, I just think it's way
even if you assume a future where Open
whatever, to access the new LLM,
that actually translate into a working
cross here pretty soon. If they own the
which everybody was horrified by at that
point were looking at it saying, "Okay,
So, it's a much bigger multiple, and
incredibly difficult for them right now.
companies are just eye-watering. They're
the people who founded them are true
And it's like they're not going to stop
I don't Or at least I don't get that
limit on spending to become that company
raising money, you watch where they're
embarrassed about it, they'll pay up to
company that is raising hundreds of
of billions of dollars of free cash flow
they're going to they're going to run
company [laughter]
boom. And we are starting to see more
company." Apparently, it's the Japanese
out of the toilet business. You have
see headlines like that, what do you
"No, this is getting crazy." I think we
knows what's going to work. And we are
winners. 50 to 100 years ago, all of
It's happening in front of you, but
that is, okay, you know, that is a quick
you a question about capital markets and
there is a lot of stock floating around
more liquid than a private company would
"Would you like to buy a little bit of
the other thing is like there's no
phones are ringing
So, I think one of the things that's
a $400 million valuation. Sounds like a
there's good reason for it. People lost
all of the different regulatory
And so, yes, you've had a new business
great company, it works. But, it's more
trade. So, I think it is the market
a few hundred million. And so, you've
lot of information, whereas these guys
that got It went viral, but it also got
surprised. Basically, what I did, I I
the most important aspect of podcasting.
Cuz if you try that as a CEO of a
threatened. Including, by the way,
problem in media. There's way too much
starting a publication and hiring a
help me?" ChatGPT said, "Sure, let's
where we're all talking about stories
the headshots and was immediately
have complimented your AI-generated
you anymore, you let your enthusiasm
enthusiastic, ChatGPT or Claude. And
right? And you can't like alienate the
obviously hates it and I would say
chief or whatever, how should they be
anxiety there is, especially in the
been even more Yeah, I understand it. I
There are so many amazing articles, for
or two. Yeah.
that looks like the 1990s where actually
maximized the amount of time as humans
was very mature. It was really
Magazines, totally mature, very hard to
profitable. Very hard. Very hard to get
connected. So that was suddenly 12 hours
drove Business Insider in the early
industry caught up. New York Times is
for example, political coverage, we
reporter focus on that. And yet there's
of the 1990s era media.
with that. Everybody can own everything.
to it being an incredibly intensely
it feels to me like people are talking
whatever query you have today, how did
you yourself are not paying for. And
important. So, people are going to want
a very binary outcome to me. Which way
brands that make it, it is terrific. I
Occasionally, there's a mistake, but it
create photos and videos and everything
all got to look at. I know they'll do
organization to do that.
in the print era,
something else, they never thought about
think it's great for brands, but I do
Okay, everyone, you know, New York Times
you know, but that's like the word that
which I realized I didn't even get to
or they fear, you know, very reasonable
have today. We were talking earlier, you
information, going out It used to be
forever, which is
forever. It's why magazine covers
need to be extraordinarily talented in
And I don't think that changes. And so,
era
call it in to the rewrite desk verbally.
who have been trained in writing and we
I do think there are opportunities now
you know what? Perplexity's pretty good
the top or or what have you. So, I do
more important in the age of AI.
models don't already know about and
actually generates much value for the
advantage because it is going to be
from. And Bloomberg's an interesting one
time that allow people to make or lose
to be differentiated."
an intelligent way, do a little more
each other and they do, ChatGPT and
big generalists, it is the niche
survive. And I'll say one more thing,
kind of not applauded in the journalism
say, "What is going to stay the same?"
always going to want to be entertained.
know, there's some really good stories
and then they would like translate it
readable words. With our few minutes
headlines about you know, these CEOs
speak." And like I get the impression
like do these big pilgrimages and stuff.
he's not even that popular anymore. He's
like world of CEOs and rich guys and
want. You can't say what you want." So,
election clearly,
company CEOs,
……（接近结尾）……
what media companies need to do. So
that's what I would say is we are as
focused as we have ever been on serving
our readers, viewers, people who love
us.
So you're now in subscri- very sub-
subscriber oriented media. You have a
newsletter, you have a podcast, etc.
Other than realizing like actually, you
know, editors are good and so forth,
what else have you learned? Or what's
been notable about your own personal
journey into subscriber based media?
What has surprised you? Well, so I give
you a Well, I think so.
A lot of what I've been doing the last
year or two is writing novels. This is
something I wanted to do forever. It's
like, okay, now's the time. And I talked
to another friend of mine who used to be
a screenwriter and I confessed that to
him. He's like,
Dude, that is crazy.
Just go to Claude.
Tell Claude what you want. And Claude
will spit out 325 pages and it'll be
pretty good.
And I don't I believe it. And it'll take
20 minutes. And so I feel like the
world's biggest idiot from a business
perspective. On the other hand,
I did want to do it. I'm glad I did it.
It's been really fun.
Tell us about it.
It's about a tech billionaire who wants
to use AI to take over the world.
non-fiction. But it'll be out. I It's
going to be out in beta. It's a new form
of books. Like a screen test. Yes. It's
been in alpha for a while. A lot of
people have read it. It's a different
kind of book. No, it's a book book. But
there's going to be a period where I
invite you to read it. Thank you. If you
would, send me what you think. And then
when I publish it for real in May, we'll
have benefited from your reading.
Anyway, so I feel like a complete idiot
for doing it. But what I will say is for
me as an analyst and writer and speaker
part of the joy is the process. And I
learn so much and this is what I don't
understand about how research is going
to be conducted. One of the things I
remember they got I was hey write me a
research report about X. Six months
later it comes back. It's better than a
research report that I would have
written as an as a young analyst when I
didn't know anything and it took six
minutes. So I said okay.
I'm not going to write any research
reports anymore but
it took me a month to do that as a
25-year-old. I learned a lot through
that process and so now I don't know how
you learn. I think you're reading the
report I like I don't that's the thing
I'm really struggling with. But I will
say so for me the process has been
interesting. I hope you like the book.
If you like it maybe I'll do another one
that would be great. But what I would
say is
on this whole thing for what are humans
going to do
you're a chess player
it has been 40 years since our phones
could clobber us in chess.
Chess is bigger than it has ever been in
person. So my hope is
we have AI research and write stuff that
we don't really want to do and we save
our writing and orating and everything
else for the stuff that we are really
passionate about.
Henry Blodget thank you so much and
thanks for joining us here at
on air fest. It was a lot of fun. Thank
you so much Henry.
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe
Weisenthal. You can follow me at the
Stalwart. Follow our producers Carmen
Rodriguez at Carmen Arman, Dash
O'Connell at Dashbot and Caleb Brooks at
Caleb Brooks. And for more Odd Lots
content go to bloomberg.com/oddlots
for the daily newsletter and all of our
episodes and you can chat about all of
these things 24/7 in our discord
discord.gg/oddlots.
And if you enjoy Odd Lots, then please
leave us a positive review on your
favorite podcast platform. And remember,
if you are a Bloomberg subscriber, you
can listen to all of our episodes
absolutely ad [music] free. All you need
to do is find the Bloomberg channel on
Apple podcast and follow the
instructions there. [music]
Thanks for listening.