TITLE: Goldman CIO Marco Argenti on the Warp-Speed Improvements in AI | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots
DURATION_S: 3415  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-30T08:07:27+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=paN2aYVoUkw
SHA256: fcfc4938402efe7b99cb9323c2fef26f8d9d6218164952b057ddd3f29e1059ba

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [10%] that extra 10%.
  [2024] person was in 2024 and even since then
  [2026] always very vague. And now in 2026, the
  [130%] 130% of my capacity." Do I Do I want to
  [90%] like get 90% of the way there. And I bet
  [2020] come out? 2020?
  [2022] &gt;&gt; 2022.
  [47000] assistant to 47,000 people.
  [120%] now have 120% of my capacity. I have
  [500000] engineer $500,000,
  [250000] $250,000 on tokens. Now again, as many
  [4.6] call Claude Opus 4.6.
  [70%] They spend maybe 70% of their time going

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
If you look at the software developer
life cycle, a lot of that is changing.
Developers are are are are are
developing software by developing specs
today. And so, if you're too much in the
weeds down there in that mechanics, and
you don't adapt for AIs or agents doing
that work, is
a software development life cycle,
deployments, rollbacks, monitoring,
observability, and all that. I think
that part will be very much disrupted.
Or if you're adding a sort of a UX on
things, that's another classic. You have
a very simple process, I don't know.
You're doing surveys or expense reports
or whatever.
And now people are going to start
expecting, you know, their personal
assistants or agents to kind of do all
that mechanic for them.
And so, I think that part is probably
something that has bigger question mark
on top. And so, I always ask myself for
the process question first, the process
transformation section question first,
and then consequently, what's the tool
that is going to support that. Just to
press on this point, though, have you
replaced any third-party software
providers with something that's been
developed internally through AI? We We
have We have terminated contracts
already. Yes, absolutely.
the All-In Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy
Alloway.
thing about AI,
I feel like it's accelerated all of our
timelines, right? Like it's phenomenal
to me to think back that like back to
the days of Chat GPT. And when did that
come out? 2020?
unbelievable the gap. And I've been
thinking about this, like just A, the
explosion of capabilities.
about is that, you know, after the first
year or so when it came out, you know,
we talked to executives. And they're
like, "How are you using AI in your
workflow?" And they're like, "Well,
Well, everyone's experimenting. It's
great. Everyone is using Chat GPT, it's
always very vague. And now in 2026, the
story is that AI is so powerful that
it's going to destroy all these legacy
software companies. So, what I would say
is we must be past the age of
experimentation. I think that any
company using it better have some
example of like, here is a workflow
where we're using it. Well, exactly. And
to this point, now that we're past the
age of experimentation, I'm very curious
how executives and managers are actually
evaluating the return on investment in
AI and what they actually want to see
from it at this point. So, you know, are
you going to replace all your
third-party SaaS contractors with
internal coders? And what does that look
like from an actual headcount
perspective, from a cost-savings
perspective? We can actually get some
concrete details on this now. So, I'm
very excited to say we do in fact have
the perfect guest. Someone who we had on
before to talk generally about AI and
someone at a company that has been
doing, you know, they got into it pretty
fast. Um, the last time we spoke to this
person was in 2024 and even since then
Ages ago. I Yes, it just feels like
light-years in in AI time.
years of AI, which is that when chat GPT
used it when it when it came out, I
played around with it a lot, you know,
and I had it write poems and all this
stuff. And then I I bet if you actually
looked at my AI usage, it went through a
trough. Whereas like I wasn't really
getting any productivity, there was
nothing it really could do that I
needed. It still sort of seemed like a
toy. So, I had this like intense burst
of use for the first several months and
then this trough. And now these days
with the expansion of capabilities,
particularly Claude Coder, I'm finding
all kinds of new things. So, there is
like we're out coming out of the trough.
I think a lot of people are actually
finding things, at least if I can
generalize from my own experience. Yeah,
absolutely. So, we do in fact have the
perfect guest. We've brought back Marco
Argenti. He's of course the chief
information officer over at Goldman
Sachs, someone we had on the podcast
back in August of 2024. So, Marco, thank
you so much for coming back on. Thanks,
thank you for having me.
How much have things changed for you?
Does 2024 seem like 20 years ago now in
AI time? Yeah, I barely remember even
what what happened back then.
what we talked about on the podcast.
That's fine.
really changing on a on a weekly basis
almost right now. And
if I look at the evolution not only
since a year ago, but even since 6
months ago,
I think it has been nothing short than
than revolutionary. A year ago we barely
talked about agents or the word almost
didn't exist.
Um
we were using AIs like a chat companion.
it was telling you, oh, I'm sorry. I
don't know who's the president of the
United States because you know, my
cutoff date is like a year and a half
before or things of that nature.
Now you can say, hey, you know, as a as
a person you can say, hey, my plane
my plane just got canceled and it's
going to redo all your plans. It's going
to check for you know, like available
flights. It's going to do all these
capabilities of personal assistant and
and that translates in corporations also
in a lot of utility that you can see in
everyday's tasks. So, um
I would say, you know, what I like to
say
to you know, to my people but also in
general I say this is not a drill. This
is real. You know, it's not the age of
experimentation anymore. This is a tool
that now can do a lot for you.
And and so we put it at work and we put
it at work in you know, starting from
developers, but then expanding in many
many other areas.
So,
I I say actually if I look at the
increase of capabilities of these
models,
what we've seen in the last 6 months or
so with really the evolution of uh
uh this advanced reasoning capabilities
that came out.
I think uh that finally got us the
confidence that uh you can use uh
AIs for everyday's work with the right
supervision and also, you know, in many
cases for mission-critical applications.
Uh it's not a toy anymore. It's
something that uh you know, you can
expect results from. And I think that's
the biggest change. So today I would say
that
uh there is nobody that is not touched
by AI.
Uh you know, we gave our uh GSAI or GSA
assistant to 47,000 people.
Uh most of them use it every day. Um
mo- most of them use multiple times a
day.
And what's interesting is uh
it's like, you know, like the first time
you see a tool like, I don't know,
Microsoft Excel.
You can almost not predict what people
are going to do with that. Okay, maybe
it's born for uh
uh
you know, doing some form of accounting
and then people write entire
applications on top of that or use it
for project managers management or
things of that nature.
And AI is kind of turning uh
turning that way.
If I look at what people do with that,
it's it's it's it's really things that
surprises every day. Because uh Well,
why don't you give us some examples? So
in production right now, what are some
workflows or novel things that were not
workflows before that you see within
Goldman that AI is doing for people
today?
the GSA assistant.
That can answer really complex questions
based on external and internal data
that generally before used to take
sometimes hours or even days, sometimes
weeks to answer, okay? It can do very
complex research for you in topics uh
uh uh that are, you know, for example,
we can ask questions uh that come from
clients such as, "Hey, how does the
recent geopolitical events on the Hormuz
Strait actually uh uh impact this
portfolio? What could be a potential
rebalancing strategy?" Or you could ask
intersection of uh uh you know, like, I
don't know, how does uh a certain Fed
decision on interest rate actually
impact uh you know, the volatility of
certain assets. So, you ask these
multi-dimensional questions
and uh uh
what GSA Assistant does,
……（中部抽样）……
it calls out a model,
And so, that's what kind of at the very
complex questions, not simple questions.
in a corporation."
we have a tool called Legend AI, which
the quality of the data, the quantity of
So, that is kind of the knowledge
fast.
the first, to launch a dev in almost
step change. There is no question that
And that is very, very easy to see uh
to be able to explain things
get really anxious. I couldn't explain
some new ideas.
something like Cloud Code?
thing for us.
going to consistently start seeing
And listen, with developers, obviously
in the last 30 years or so, I kind of
prioritization, the stuff that is below
130% of my capacity." Do I Do I want to
quality gets actually better
about how they could be disrupted. And
software. Right now,
there has kind of always been that
"Hey, wait a second. Why are you running
cycle and a renewal. What I say is that
possible. To me, it's like saying
uh people tend to make it a category and
software am I going to have like a few
The real question is
that or not. Example
operating in the general ledger type of
still need to do a lot of that and it's
me, you know, in in kind of the safe
it kind of is aligned to the way people
you're too much in the weeds down there
Or if you're adding a sort of a UX on
assistants or agents to kind of do all
question first, and then
have terminated contracts already. Yes,
The equation has changed quite a bit.
of millions of dollars.
the cost of kind of, you know,
to be built. The very big large the
You know, there's still some rough edges
applications. You know what I'm saying?
of 2026 and I saw headlines that were
No, no, no, no, no. I mean, that is the
So the point is
least intermediaries you have and
to be, you know, if there is a cycle
normally building the product. They're
people that have actually built those
And when things are so rapid, you know,
actually make it. You know, things are
like the major hurdle for a lot of this
know, I for uh
um
rest of the applications, and so. I can
of reach outwards and actually do that
that that would be remain very valuable.
to the future and those will not. You
of something that people basically vibe
uh like cloud migrations of
travel assistant for corporate travel
what I'm doing right now while we're
in the past. So like I would love to
there's intra-firm competition for
uh you know, a few months ago I did uh
of early on. And then the one was
something about like oh if I'm paying an
we're talking about some pretty big
west of everybody goes and calls an API
routes requests to you know, the
many cases if you're asking, you know,
way before you start even having the
do some on their you go to
much of the work of your senior
where do I where do I get the right
actual cost.
is to try
not going to go there. I don't need this
a time where people need to really find
And I think it
a little bit like uh uh
kind of optimize the weight of web pages
to work in optimizing your images rather
worry about optimization. And the other
your token cost per hour is less than
this. One of the things you hear is that
hyperscalers are still losing money hand
up, probably even more. And so, total
TCP/IP packets or computer or any of
route. If you go the open claw route,
but the cost the the the per unit cost
like,
economies of scale. Can Goldman
imperative and how you handle that
the corporate in in the corporate app
assistant today can spit out a lot of
to refuse to run it and so it just
and they can run perhaps faster and they
So uh
has actually have informed the way we
interpretation. I never I actually never
So, it's basically what you know in in
The other one is
The third one is
that or change the way you filter news
instead of uh letting people install
Um
others, okay?
point you're going to hit the wall. A
most airplanes are in auto I have
We would maybe watch some videos. We
recently I was on a flight I'll tell you
comes on and says, "Unprompted, by the
nervous. Okay. By the way, we have
velocity is really like is like the
But related to Joe's point though, you
new to them. A lot of the models
time that banks use neural networks,
networks don't have perfect
management, which is a very standardized
new thing. It's more of an evolution
the application, right? And then which
called a pull request or a merge
an AI, right? And so, we have
production, it goes in something that is
checks, there are tech risk checks. So,
territory, and you're also honest on
we recorded several weeks ago that we
was because we want to know like if AI
this sort of information asymmetry. And
say, "What is the straight of Formosa
like get 90% of the way there. And I bet
basket the way a trading desk would.
So, I think that's the answer.
we have a little bit of a data
because generally rates move
know, 100 plus countries and these
stocks or four or five. This is like
get is like at the end of the day
you know, it's sometimes 1 second out
that 10% is really where the money is.
trading.
in-house like GSAI that's pulling data
the concept of info barriers, okay? And
I'm on the private side,
nothing.
or any computers. And so, these are
just take them to certain place. And so,
coders, because you need to worry about
And this is kind of that is foundational
need for software engineers. And that
or otherwise, the types of person you're
is an individual contributor, really.
The second one is uh you need to be able
break down the work into chunks that can
It turns out that those three things,
a little bit into a manager.
specialized than they are. And so the
everybody's going to actually rapidly go
also that there is a little bit of clash
metamorphosis happening there. It's not
developer at Goldman? Because you have
I do, but I feel like a lot of vibe
again until you get that big win.
engineers in semiconductors feel like
And then it's like they feel the work is
the first time people had the Excel. I
creating your applications. I've seen
of novelty to that. And then I've seen
that I've seen is that because maybe of
the profession that is actually coming
a lot of peer pressure. There is a lot
my god, how could you do that?" And so,
talking about burnout.
Let's say you go from uh
……（接近结尾）……
I think taking that away kind of
it it and making them they focus more
and more on the plan, for example. And
so, right now, let's do a migration plan
to the cloud of a complex application.
They spend maybe 70% of their time going
back and forth with a very powerful set
of AIs to really get the plan right.
They feel a little bit more elevated
and the mechanical part
it's kind of, you know, left to to to to
the machine. The same way, I mean,
listen, I started developing when I was
literally flipping switches, okay? And
then pressing a button that we should
move the register up one.
And then came uh you know, some
languages
uh they were like C. Oh my god, now I
don't have to flip switches anymore, but
then guess what? I need to do memory
management, I need to do pointers. I
mean, there's a lot of heavy lifting.
Oh, I have a memory leak. I'm going to
spend a week before I actually finally
identify that. And then, you know, it
comes Java. Oh,
garbage collection. I don't have to
worry about memory leaks anymore.
Fantastic. And then comes Python, which
is all all that rigidity or so much
easier to you know be type free and so
forth. And so every time you kind of
keep raising the bar and a lot of the
kind of mechanics kind of goes away. I
think
this is be like a 10 years jump in you
know in in a matter of two years.
But I think overall nobody really likes
to do to have that toil and that
mechanical work. And I'm actually quite
happy that people are going to spend
maybe initially more time because
they're excited but on things that
they're enjoying rather than things that
this is they dread.
All right. Well, Marco, we'll have to
have you back on the podcast in another
year and a half I guess and discuss
Yeah, three months. [laughter] That's
right.
on the reduced AI timeline. Thank you so
much for for coming back on the pod.
Thank you both of you. Thank you. Thanks
for having me. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank
you. Thank you. So Joe, that was great
to catch up. One thing I thought was
really interesting was his point about
the discussions with the regulators and
framing it like very similar to previous
technological advances where you're not
necessarily explaining exactly how the
models are coming to certain
conclusions.
actually limiting the risks and making
sure that they're in the right bucket
for risk assessment. No, I thought that
was really interesting just that some of
these technologies the you know the
black box. Yeah. The chat G LLMs are not
the first black box. I mean we've
actually been talking about black box
trading for years in finance before. So
the idea of like okay, there are these
things that are happening. We can't
articulate them and whatever. Like it's
not the first rodeo for finance is
really interesting. I'm also you know, I
thought the whole conversation about
token budgets and allocations are
interesting. The idea of like okay, part
of the job here is you have a bunch of
different models. Everyone in theory
wants the most performant model but how
do you find that optimization where you
get the best performance relative to
price? It sounds like a pretty
interesting like engineering problem.
on that question because it's such an
interesting [clears throat]
a question of incentives, right? And
Totally.
And how do you know like what
constitutes a good output and how do
when do you sacrifice a little bit of
quality for like 10x less token budget
or whatever? Like these are these would
be it would be very interesting to talk
about how that problem specifically gets
solved inside of an organization.
Yeah. Well, we'll have Marco back on
very soon to talk about all the new
things that AI is doing. But for now,
shall we leave it there?
another episode of the Odd Lots podcast.
I'm Tracy Alloway. You can follow me at
Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe Weisenthal.
You can follow me at The Stalwart.
Follow our producers Carmen Rodriguez at
Carmen at Kale
Brooks. And for more Odd Lots content,
you should check out our daily
newsletter. You can find that at
And you can chat about all these topics
24/7 in our Discord discord.gg/odd
lots. And if you enjoyed this
conversation, then please leave a
comment or like the video or better yet,
subscribe. Thanks for watching.