TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/25/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8627  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-25T15:22:30+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kMG2LhC7tP4
SHA256: b4994037f89939791b4cae4f492fbbd1d639892dab418affba8955902121df25

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] this morning positive by close to 1% on
  [5%] down by more than 5%. Brent a break of
  [6%] &gt;&gt; Crude this morning down by close to 6%
  [2%] 2% or 3% is a more relevant stable
  [20%] capacity. 20% of all the capacity and
  [0.8%] &gt;&gt; Futures this morning positive by 0.8%
  [2022] which was very very different from 2022
  [2000] 2,000 soldiers to the Middle East. They
  [3%] 2% or 3% is a more relevant stable
  [40%] down from more than 40% before the
  [6575] So 6575 feels to me the landing point
  [4%] than 4%. A break of 100. Back into
  [5000] will join about 5,000 Marines expected
  [25%] Asia to US is up about 25%. So, um,
  [2008] financial crisis in 2008. Just gives you
  [50%] respond to that? If you lost 40% 50% of
  [13%] turn to ARM shares. They are rising 13%
  [2027] $100 a barrel through 2027, reach up to
  [7650] 7650 from 7400
  [0.9%] futures positive by 0.9% on the S&amp;P.
  [9000] US has been hitting. 9,000 more than
  [4.4%] rates and an unemployment rate of 4.4%
  [0.9] by 0.9. And here's the move in bond
  [0.7%] 0.7%.
  [1990] 1990, uh this was a primary
  [9850] digits. 9850 on Brent crude. WTI at
  [1970] place as the 1970s when we last saw uh
  [9863] 100 9863 that sets the tone for this
  [2024] 2024. Dealers forced to take up the most
  [60%] 60% it kind of stabilized a little bit
  [18%] air cargo. It's actually 18% of the air
  [1.8%] &gt;&gt; Gold this morning by 1.8% as we count
  [16%] rating for Congress was 16%. That was
  [9884] double digits on Brent crude. 9884 and
  [7400] 7650 from 7400
  [2026] different in 2026?
  [2025] beginning of 2025, how the broader
  [5.4%] for home purchases fell 5.4% last week,
  [8660] 8660 under surveillance this morning.
  [50000] You've got 5,000 50,000 troops already

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
It's just so difficult to determine
what's going to happen next in this
market.
there likely will be long-term buying
opportunities.
physical and the financial markets.
dramatically.
ourselves the questions whether or not
these positive trends can continue after
the war.
Jonathan Pharaoh. Lisa Abramowitz and
Ann Marie Hordern
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday clinging to cautious
optimism. The White House pushing a
15-point peace plan to end the war with
Iran as plans are being made to increase
the troop presence in the Middle East.
It's leaving investors continuing to
face down substantial two-way risk
heading into a weekend deadline. This
has been the issue so many people have
wanted to avoid missing out on the
upward rip when there was some sort of
capitulation or a sense of deescalation.
Question that increasing number of
investors are asking are we reaching the
point at which any kind of upside rally
based on deescalation is getting capped.
We're sort of reaching the limits of how
far that can go based on the fact that
we are reaching real cannibalization
from oil supplies and a real sense of
destabilization in the region.
let's sit on the data. the
stagflationary hit to the PMIs. So
output a little bit lower, prices a
little bit higher. You're starting to
see it cascade through the economy, Asia
first and the Shell CEO saying Europe
next.
PMIs coming out of Europe and you see
that with respect to what the ECB
president is saying, which is
essentially we will not hesitate to act.
And this time does feel a little bit
different in terms of the upside risk of
inflation. There still is that downside
risk though to growth and that's what an
increasing number of people are talking
about. Larry Frink saying if this is not
res resolved and you get oil to $120 to
$150 a barrel, brace yourself for a
global recession.
global recession here. Equity futures
this morning positive by close to 1% on
the S&amp;P 500. Comfort again from a deeply
backated futures curve and the
disconnect. How many times have you
heard this line? The disconnect between
the physical market and what is
happening in the paper market and the
futures curve. So you could raise
questions about whether this is some
sort of manipulation, some sort of big
trader coming from a variety of
different places that have an incentive
to lower the appearance of of pain in
the paper market even as a physical
market really experiences some real
strain. On the other hand, there is a
question of how low prices can go if
this does continue, if there is demand
destruction. Honestly, this remains to
be a question. the speaker of the
Iranian parliament coming out and
saying, "Well, right now it it seems
like they might be winning the words,
the war of words, but it you can't print
molecules." Going back to what Jeff
Curry had to say.
interview on this program just possibly
the exact same thing. I was like, "Hey,
he's quoting Jeff Curry." Look at that.
on Brent crude. Brent south of triple
digits. 9850 on Brent crude. WTI at
about 87. Coming up on this program,
we'll catch up with Martin Horn at
Berings with markets at the mercy of the
headlines. Flexport CEO Ryan Pettison
with global shipping upended by the war
and Francis Donald of RBC as
inflationary pressures continue to
increase. We begin this hour with our
top story. The US sending Iran a
15-point plan to end the war. President
Trump saying negotiations have begun.
Bloomberg's Jamaa Beti joins us now from
Dubai. Jamanna, welcome to the program.
So, we've got a 15-point peace plan.
What's Iran's response to it so far?
the critical question. Uh what we
understand Bloomberg uh reporting
overnight is that the US have sent their
15point draft proposal to Iran delivered
via Pakistan. And much of the contents
of the proposal are similar to the
negotiating stance that the US had even
prior to the war. some of those key
elements on the nuclear deal, including
uh that Iran should uh give up their
their plans to develop a nuclear weapon.
They should dismantle some of their key
centrifuges, uh limit their missile
activity, stop funding proxies around
the region. So, none of that is new, but
there is one new element per the draft
proposal, which is Iran would have to
commit to the full reopening of the
strait without threats. And of course,
as we've understood over the last couple
of days, the strait is not closed. it is
effectively being controlled by Iran
still and there's a letter that was
being circulated by the international
maritime uh uh organization overnight
suggesting that Iran are allowing
vessels to pass through so long as they
deem them deem them not to be hostile.
So that is one part of the conversation
but I think what's key here is number
one we don't know who exactly the US is
negotiating with. There has been no
acknowledgement from Iran at least from
official voices that direct negotiations
are underway. there's been an offer to
mediate from Pakistan but still no
official commentary and the second point
here is even if they are speaking to
somebody let's say one of these
political figures like the speaker of
the parliament that Lisa just referenced
or Abbas Iraqi the foreign minister does
that person actually have the clout and
the influence to convince the hardliners
in the IRGC and the clerics to actually
sign on to some of the the the the
negotiating terms that the US are
putting forwards. No doubt they too will
be asking for very heavy concessions
because they know that they have this
leverage over the straight of hormones
now. So there's still a lot of daylight
between the two sides and no official
commentary coming through. I think
there's some skepticism that diplomacy
will actually lead to a positive outcome
in the next couple of days. Um and that
being said, look, it's still day 26 of
this war. It's still ongoing. The
operations are still ongoing. uh more
strikes overnight. Israel hitting some
key facilities around Iran. Iran
striking back, yes, with a lower volume
of projectiles than we had seen in the
first couple of weeks, but they're still
being very targeted about what they're
hitting. Another fuel depot site hit
near Kuwait. Um that disrupted some of
the airline activity, more drones being
intercepted in Saudi Arabia as well. So,
the war is still very much going on. uh
markets seem to be pricing in some form
of a diplomatic breakthrough, but I
think in this part of the world there's
some serious skepticism that this is
actually going to yield anything
tangible in the coming days.
we'll hear from you a little bit later
in the program. Jamaica Beti leading our
coverage out of Dubai once again this
morning. To Jamanna's point, the economy
is a mess right now in Iran and power is
very fragmented. So when we say we're
negotiating with Iran, we have to keep
on asking the question, who are you
negotiating with? And is everybody on
the right side?
person have over the regime? You can
also question who's the Wii. Is it the
US? Is it Israel? Is it Saudi Arabia? Is
it UAE? And is there a splintering of
some of the parties involved?
this morning. Martin Horn of Bearings
writing, "Geopolitical headlines
typically have only short-lived effect
on markets. We believe the inflationary
bubble will likely be contained." Martin
joins us now for more. Martin, welcome
to the program. Let's spend some time on
that belief. What underpins that belief?
are committing an act of mutual self
harm, generally speaking, those parties
find a way to come to together to find a
conclusion. I think that's exactly what
we're in. Um there's so much noise in
the world, it's very difficult to be
……（中部抽样）……
definitive around this. But you've seen
now because ultimately we'll be back and
no point to AI if it doesn't produce an
increased efficiency in the future and
things she pointed out was um the rates
tell. It strikes me uh Martin that
I'm not often referred to as bullish.
these situations, including these
I read that speech earlier on this
kind of where a lot of central banks are
that plan, it's also deploying about
out of 10? How bad is it? I have to be
people and they want to make a deal so
they're incredibly easy. The bid to
from Washington. Morning, Amory.
Washington DC. He's a friend of the
connectivity to the rest of America's
cargo planes flying from Asia to the
the bigger problem is is just available
States allows foreign companies to
know, the Supreme Court overturned the
capacity the tariff volatility of the
crude down by 5%. WTI down by 5%. Also,
looking to build on yesterday's gains.
can this precious metal be the haven
trade of buy US assets once again coming
helping to ease uh uh oil prices this
uh for PC and server makers, soft uh
Trump to fund most of the DHS. United
Congress to get anything done. I'll
describe what United is unveiling and
if you just buy out all the seats and
do, which is get rid of the armrest. You
Dan, welcome to the program. We've heard
Europe better um paper barrels there
initiatives, etc. So you're you're
on a go forward basis? Is Iran in
number comes down, I think price comes
shortages because we produce close to 14
measure for all of us uh at home is just
local production, I should say, as well
much higher prices at the pump just
says it may quit refining oil in
headline inflation by around 50 basis
the key thing to watch in terms of
comfort level importantly driven by
ails the US economy. And let's be clear,
that and wondering, are we really going
a US issue. It's a new global macro
challenges with a shock of this
more near 4% for the bottom half of
move I've possibly seen in the last 3
technology that shows few signs of
Equities high by 0.8% on the S&amp;P 500. On
are two possible futures, escalation and
have to grapple with that for months.
central bankers which is why they're
through the straight of Hormuz and
which they stay there that really causes
stimulus coming through this year. So
suddenly the rest of the world is seeing
markets if it does result in demand
as a bit more defensive. But I do think
market
trend and outlook survey that the census
tech CEO after tech CEO. Let's go
really begin to see profitability hit
economic cycle, but I think it creates a
management. I was just thinking about
is tied to AI but yesterday it just
the edge of arrogance?
aggressively.
following an announcement that the
talking to the right people, and they
force left. They have no anti-aircraft
been talking about and this
9,000 so far, more than a thousand in
been claimed to be about bringing
being deployed. 2,000 soldiers from the
there's all these people that we're
participation or at least buy and say
Expeditionary Unit on its way. They're
fact that essentially that would give
president said was a red line from the
is now claiming this power in a way that
idea how durable that would be, or you
the way. Crude down by 6%. Brent back to
you saw yields go up, actually sold at a
believing the perception that someone
a fair question. inconclusive at this
United CEO telling Lisa yesterday that
takes aim at the growing data center
reportedly coming during a closed door
around that.
stayed on as Fed chair, they were going
now for more Claudia welcome to the
representative of the situation on the
wells themselves. We often talk about
that you get to the same level. So uh
by the missile that can take years right
dynamic started to play into the uh
continues. But uh uh let's not forget
start to fall. But uh it's going to take
people understanding the scope of this
are passed through different goods and
says it may quit refining oil in
against.
lower on Brent and WTI down by some 5%.
And we will not act before we have
natural uh uh gas. Also remember the ECB
pricing in a number of rate hikes for
been and the dual mandate that we're
And I don't think it would take much to
And you've got the captain refusing to
has one vote. Um and and I think
he may well stay on I think for for some
sense of just how much concern there is
Bloomberg surveillance stats right now.
comes to the signal is more important
these talks as well. justifiably so
in that.
I think that's bold. I respect it
increasingly a haven for the rest of the
with stocks rebanning on hopes a
riskreward here. I would say if you want
extremely difficult. I think you also
in the end. I mean, I think the
out of the system. Has the deck already
particular is a part of the market that
If you're turning around and saying the
if financial conditions are tight,
kind of, you know, wobbly pieces out
great, is it? I think the debate there
perspective. We can do that. I can
credit firms?
three seats that drop. Seen that?
fewer people traveling as prices go up.
its propagation.
is that that availability issue spreads
point to 38791
out about what the requests are, what
credit. Concerns continuing to build.
product they were buying into where you
the funds are returning more than that
is right around 730 million. So net
attract as attractive right now as it
equity market. It was high by close to
talks. Of course, this is so hard to
here. Appreciate it. Otherwise, private
of escalation risk. The conversation of
3.9, $100.40,
sides are are gearing up for a longer
And choosing what to wait, one versus
want to show you this name Braise
price hikes for their their CPUs. Uh
prior experience, whether it's
radicals uh as part of the uh part of
progress but we got to finish that job.
15-point plan the administration has
restarting its ballistic missile, then
threat uh is going to be dramatically
made the objectives clear, which is we
not as isolated because uh they haven't
one to one want to stand here and try to
when the dust settles. Um I I'm not
they've now seen some of the uncertainty
out of the government or to public
……（接近结尾）……
various ways throughout the last few
days. when you get denial and push back
from the Iranian side, even if you were
negotiating, would you want to talk
about it publicly? Would you like to
tell your other friends in Iran that
you're having those conversations with
the US right now about securing some
kind of peace deal? Just this adds the
question around market uh dynamics right
now as well because the US would like to
see oil prices come in and they would
like a sense of stability and Iran wants
oil prices to go up and have the
perception that this is an existential
battle that they will act like cornered
cats and keep fighting and keep uh doing
moves however desperate to make sure
that this is a disruption that exerts
the maximum pain on the international
economy.
and get invisibility on this talks
increasingly difficult. Let's get you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Yhara has
more. Hey Yahara.
US's 15point peace plan a day after
receiving the offer. State media saying
Iran does not believe it is logical to
enter talks with parties that violate
agreements, acknowledging the US has
stepped up efforts to secure a ceasefire
with indirect talks. Meanwhile, Barclay
shares are rising 3% in London. The bank
is scaling back its assetbacked lending
to smaller borrowers. The move follows
losses Barkclay suffered from the
collapse of financial market financial
solutions andricolor holdings. Barclays
is shifting its focus to loans for
larger corporates already pulling back
from several deals with higher perceived
risks.
And SpaceX could file for its highly
anticipated IPO as early as this week.
the information reporting. Elon Musk's
company may try to raise a record of
more than $75 billion. That would make
it the largest in history, topping Saudi
Aramco's 20 more than $29 billion
listing back in 2019. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John.
Yahara, thank you. What a time to
deliver. One of the biggest IPOs ever.
conditions are not that tight, right?
Right. And we've all been talking about
tightening financial conditions, but
that IPO, which might be the biggest or
one of the biggest ever in history,
still potentially slated for this week.
particularly unique company that might
get some particularly unique attention.
though. And this is the reason why
people keep saying you could still
increase maybe your forecast for US
equities.
Barclays to lift your price target on
this stock market. Amazing at this
moment. Up next on the program, we'll
set you up for the day ahead from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
The most likely path is the uncertainty
in the Middle East may put them on hold
for a while. But I think eventually uh
this will be resolved. It'll be in the
rearview mirror and I think at that
point Kevin Walsh when he does arrive
will will be inclined to lower rates at
least down to the neutral level of
around 3%.
Federal Reserve. That was Richard Clara
of PIMCO, formerly of course the Fed
vice chair not so long ago. If you're
just joining us, welcome to the program.
Equity futures right now on the S&amp;P 500
positive by 0.8%
on the S&amp;P on the Nasdaq up by 1% on the
Russell also higher by one percentage
point with the opening bow just around
the corner. Bond yields set up as
follows. Twos 10 and 30s yields are just
a little bit lower by basis point on
twos with crude down on the session
going into some important auctions.
Bremo over the next few days,
later today. And then, of course, on
tomorrow, you get $44 billion of
seven-year notes. Do you get the same
kind of indigestion that we got
yesterday with the two-year auction? And
if you do, what does that say about
people's appetite to absorb interest
rate risk at a time of such volatility?
we can say that right now, right? It's
very confusing time. Difficult to really
put money to work, but a very
interesting market. I think that is
completely believed across Wall Street.
morning. This was Bloomberg
surveillance.