TITLE: OpenClaw Mania Sweeps China | The China Show 3/11/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5575  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-11T05:21:14+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DIKnE629emQ
SHA256: 4f02407d416bb28fec97d16c79241ba92b6df6fa327baafef215ad07b690284f

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] is coming online right now up 1% in the
  [5%] is up another 5%. Mini Max is up some
  [2%] verge of falling below 2% today and of
  [10%] down about 10%. So, I mean, maybe not as
  [3%] falling some 3% here. So, maybe a bit of
  [1.7%] Jan and Feb, that number is out 1.7% to
  [15%] 15% going into the open today. China
  [90%] fairly full, 85-90% full. So, and they
  [2022] swings in oil going back to 2022. That's
  [80000] Tencent has got around 80,000 R&amp;D
  [50%] to 50% of that is coming directly into
  [40%] up 40% year-to-date. So, we're still
  [6.9] dollar China was back above 6.9, and as
  [6.87] coming through 6.87 right now on dollar
  [7%] and 1/2% in the pre-market. It was up 7%
  [4700] 4700 line. Uh Shanghai crude, so
  [16%] stock by close to 16% following what we
  [2017] 2017 Trump sent his
  [4%] about 4% of GDP
  [4.5] Maybe the range is the 4.5 to 5%, but
  [2008] during the 2008
  [20%] saw the likes of MiniMax up some 20%.
  [30%] to $80 on Brent, we're still up 30% for
  [1.6%] We're now up just 1.6% about 30 minutes
  [2020] 2020 when there was so much excitement
  [95%] is somewhere in the region of 90 to 95%
  [2007] probably since the iPhone in 2007.
  [2026] &gt;&gt; in 2026?
  [2025] 2025.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong. You're watching the
China Show. I'm Yvonne Man with David
and Glass.
markets in [music] greater China. Our
top stories today, energy markets remain
in whipsaw territory. Uh investors
weighing what could be the largest ever
oil increase from IEA. Uh the Trump
White House mix mix messaging on the war
in Iran.
consumers [music] and tech firms rushing
to embrace the open source AI program.
We speak to the co-founder of AI cloud
platform Tuya about [music] the growth
strategy and their global expansion
plans.
political gatherings of the year are
drawing to a close [music] today and
tomorrow as attention now really sort of
pivots to Donald Trump's visit here
later this month and early April for
that summit with Xi Jinping.
is very headline driven here. At least
oil markets are concerned given Yeah, as
you talked about the conflicting sort of
messages we're getting from the White
House. But at least in the last hour or
so, it was that Wall Street
on. The calmer heads are really kind of
helping here when it comes to the
volatility and stemming that in some
way.
quite a big number, too, right? 182
million barrels. And you got to wonder
to your point We were just having this
conversation right before we came on
set, you know, whether it was a matter
of supply because supply was simply
turned off because storage was filling
up. It's It's moving and transporting
the stuff that's that's the key issue
right now. That goes into the mixed
messages around what really is taking
place in the Strait of Hormuz, the you
know, the amount of traffic that's going
through.
There's report of mines and then Donald
Trump, of course, coming out the
president saying, you know, we're going
to address that if in fact Iran is is is
is looking to plat just a lot of naval
mines as well. But yes, it's it's
headline driven to your point, which is
why I guess when you look at markets,
we're really seeing very strange things
taking place, which normally don't
coexist well. I'll get to that in a
moment.
of with the energy secretary of the US,
Chris Wright, when he came out with this
post talking about, you know,
vessels were being escorted through the
Strait of Hormuz and then it was taken
down and then Caroline Livitt had to
come through and you know, it it just
became so confusing that at one point I
think oil markets were sub 80 at one
point and then we kind of flipped back
up and now this IEA report kind of puts
things back into a little bit more of a
settling territory, but it just goes to
show that the Iran strategy from the US
administration right now is in in some
ways quite conflicting and confusing,
too.
later on, of course, that exchange
as far as the White House is concerned.
But two messages, right? I think what we
can take away. One is
things have not settled when you look at
Brent fall, for example, that's coming
up on your screens. 10-day fall is now
at historic levels, effectively
comparing that to Ukraine war, which is
in blue, the global pandemic, which is
in pink, the global financial crisis in
orange,
Desert Storm
in in the late '90s, right? Now, even if
this goes away, say this settles, if
this goes away we're still stuck with
the inflation issue because oil is still
up 40% year-to-date. So, we're still
stuck with that issue as well. So,
markets are trying to just
figure out which is the lesser evil at
this point in time.
scenario is stagflation, right? Which is
what, you know, people are starting to
worry about. If we continue to see this
conflict continue and prolonged, you
know, does this mean that, you know,
it's going to be even harder for for
central banks uh to really cut rates.
So, there's that And then, you know, I
really want to talk about open claw, but
you know, it's really these headlines
that are really overshadowing what we
really want to talk about in China,
which is this frenzy that's going on
with open claw right now. And the the
lobster husbandry, have you seen it?
now. [laughter] It was uh they've always
been their lobster, as they say. Uh and
it's really it's taken on really the
primary moving the primary mover when
you look at markets going into the close
yesterday, right? Tencent, Minimax, and
what have you. Overnight, you had Baidu
as well. We'll get to that in a moment,
but yes, these are two separate stories,
and I imagine the latter will be
still front and center when you look at
these Chinese markets coming online
right now. Uh that all being said, Brent
is coming online right now up 1% in the
early
of 1%. Uh just looking at the intraday
really doesn't do justice to the amount
of swings we've seen
at the Nikkei 225. So, I I alluded to
this too. It's quite rare that you see
the cash market is up by that amount,
and the Nikkei vol index is also up by
quite substantial amounts. So, you are
getting still hedging coming through
amidst the rally taking place. Taiwan
within that uh this is perhaps the
window to tell you this. Uh TSMC, of
course, uh in terms of monthly sales, uh
Jan and Feb, that number is out 1.7% to
the upside. S&amp;P futures are better by
about a third of 1%. So, we talked about
this. You had earnings coming through.
Alibaba was up overnight. This check
rally again very much in focus. Nio's an
earning story. Uh we'll see what that
looks like as far as the listing this
part of the world is concerned. A50
futures, last we checked, are slightly
to the downside. Oil coming up, and
dollar China was back above 6.9, and as
you can see in terms of uh the dollar
coming through 6.87 right now on dollar
offshore.
latest confusion over US policy over
Iran uh really has started with that now
deleted post on X by the energy
secretary Chris Wright talking about
these sort of US escorts.
And then really what we heard was this
pretty interesting exchange from from
our own BN reporter
Hadriana Lowenkron with Carolyn Levitt
in the White House really clear trying
to clarify what really is the strategy
moving forward. Take a listen.
posted and then appeared to have deleted
a post on X saying that the US Navy
escorted an oil tanker through the
Strait of Hormuz?
haven't had a chance to talk to the
energy secretary about it directly.
However, I know the post was taken down
pretty quickly and I can confirm that
the US Navy has not escorted a tanker or
vessel at this time. Though of course
that's an option the president has said
he will absolutely utilize if and when
necessary at the appropriate time.
posted erroneously
or could it be because of a staffer,
what you know, what I guess
will there be any consequences for this?
I know you still have to consult but
just generally speaking
Department of Energy to answer that
question.
quickly,
in [clears throat] terms of oil
sanctions, the president said that there
would be some sanctions what that would
be lifted. Would those be on Venezuela,
Russia? Could you give some specifics
there and then timing for that as well?
Treasury Department and the president's
energy team continue to discuss and they
will ultimately consult with the
president before decisions are made. I
don't have any announcements on new
sanctions or the lifting of new
sanctions for you today.
with us right now with the latest.
Derek, more question marks now than we
have answers. Split the difference for
us between that exchange. Where what
message do you think we should be taking
away at this point?
two sort of buy, sell, hold questions
that people have here, right?
From a market's perspective. One is
when's this going to end, right? It's
it's going to end sooner or it's going
to end later, right? So, that's the
first one. The second one is when does
energy
uh flow get back to some semblance of
what people have thought of as normal.
……（中部抽样）……
Uh those two things are very closely
comment about whether they're going to
takes together
know, fate of what happens in the Middle
know at this point of the situation
know, if this is going to happen, we're
fact that there have been blockages and
When you have something that's this big
a decision to to put down their guns and
might be prepared to do in terms of
but nonetheless, you know, gains in
responded pretty favorably. I think that
well. And so, you know, the the market
moment in time. And with the reserves
be able to talk about something other
creates a lot of security questions as
for the companies that are that are
tech companies coming through. [music]
Certainly there's been some local media
southbound flows, Dave.
buyers, too. BYD conversation around F1
claw frenzy. We kind of missed it given
idea of open claw is that it comes to
because it connect can can connect to
automatically register you instead. I
done?
for the stock. they released their own
note out from Bloomberg Intelligence for
online wearing like the lobster hats and
tech correspondent on the latest of
things are actually slowing down
getting involved in F1.
markets. So, there's obviously the Iran
Strait of Hormuz, [music]
local governments in in Shenzhen and
space. Here's what onshore markets are
release one of the largest uh reserves
few days ago. So, certainly that's the
here. Uh property and some of the banks
interesting as well. Uh Nio, we did see
late. Uh so, we talked about oil, we
could say, lower. Uh and then let's talk
tech giant like Baidu. Now, it's quite
enthusiasm is coming up against this
Information and Comms Tech, warning of
over in Beijing. Of course, it's been
presidents?
is there's only 3 weeks left to get all
that the Chinese
Trump let's face it I think he thinks
time to possibly get the preparation
Paris this weekend. But again, 3 weeks
question.
Steve, coming through here. But yeah,
and the fiscal in NPC. I think you know,
that will limit the room for monetary
Chinese economy at the beginning of this
does having a 5% let's say they hit the
globally. But in the meantime we know
know, talents in China. In the meantime
know, enjoy the food there.
parts like Guangdong, which are you
of meaningful sort of
in terms of this. Of course, you know,
you know in province in city like
for service related jobs there.
mind in that?
when the oil price is surged you know
kind of perspective, we what we have to
of those export numbers that we got
cheap products and the like. I mean, is
competition
You know, these kind of things in the
you know, not only this year, but also
yeah.
views on the impact of the war in Iran,
affects the company.
looking to travel because in the near
strategies are are prudent. Um and and
have uh you know, them as big transit
they are going to have to balance with.
relatively [music] flat here this
is Bloomberg.
last we checked.
continues for some of these tech giants.
to note though when it comes to the
you square that with this journal report
number uh that's coming through in terms
Uh we're coming off quite steep selling,
think we're looking at the biggest
from a central banker perspective,
the risks to this. The market is still
whole technology. And certainly this
write emails, organize emails, or even
successor of Deep Seek. You know, could
well. MiniMax was surge continues to
going on this space here.
like. And it just shows you how you
China maybe before that crackdown in
challenged I am [laughter] just in in
interview with the People's Daily, an
Okay, before we get to the poo-pooing,
general usage of these tools. But uh I
pricing which relates directly to token
certainly the smaller guys Minimax and
you know, in terms of everybody this
that is available to everyone because
realistic view as to when these
and maybe see a bit more promise there?
Um, you know, in the subsequent years it
to drive earnings in the long run. So,
MiniMax, not picking on them, has got
here. 20 HK. Yes, I mean, we were at
guys.
I mean, the the way I think about it is
really have a big impact is in some of
days. We're still kind of in the first
kind of looking at that that activity
think where you can see the much more
in China. Yeah.
US hyperscalers, where are we within
it's it's a great time to be a supplier
getting stronger recently, we're still
interesting estimates on this. So you
I think there was a 50-year bond deal.
driver of that demand. And the reason
sticking around. Still ahead on the
chain and what we see at the moment is
with agents at the moment this week, but
of these sort of corrections to to
rolling out. So we're still very early
macro overlay. Does the thesis hold up
relationship between the the weaker
more of an international allocation. And
been disruption. So, AI disruption. So,
the bathwater. I think we've seen a
more disposable income, they're more
game.
is not a province of Guangdong Guangdong
of war, very easy calculation, about 20
the war continues and the strait remains
simultaneously.
Uh joining us out of Singapore is our
releasing a whole heart of emergency
pain points on hand is still the fact
military operations. I mean what what is
fundamentals it really what I'm really
impact of such a huge oil infrastructure
about the amount of capacity that is
now. But what I can say for sure is that
whether it's a production cut is a
and really reacting to things and
given all the news flow too, [music]
to the upside here. One of the stock
COO and also the CFO of the US and Hong
over all those kind of different type of
little more about it. It seems like you
capability how to help make your life
that automatically for you. So that's
elders and for the for the very young
things like predictable revenue, stable
adoption of smart devices. So, I do
different type of manufacturers. They
using it? Have you been deploying it in
with AI. Even though that okay, that
more of them. And uh to help people do
real-life example because I think you're
adopted to to to global market.
and spilled some milk on the dining
the exactly locations that what the
cases. So I think I believe that
you? Is is it competition given that
have been taking places. And because we
easier enough for majority of the
we're all taking places all over the
……（接近结尾）……
in the future we might see BYD among the
cars burning rubber on the circuit
there. That's because the automaker is
said to be examining options here to
enter Formula 1.
reporter joins us now. Um I mean,
obviously there's there's a lot of brand
recognition involved, but what is it
going to be the appeal for BYD to enter
something like F1?
if BYD decide to, you know, enter into
the F1, maybe considering building their
own team or buying into a season, that
means millions of viewers around the
world. Um you know, could be accessible
through, you know, the presence in these
races. And you know, fans get very
passionate about, you know, supporting
their own teams. So, these are all
cachet that BYD really wants to access
as it pushes up its luxury branding.
Because right now, as we know, BYD in
China especially is still known as a
mass-market brand. It's got this long
association for being ride-hailing cars.
So, I think BYD is trying to assess
options for shaking up, you know, its
mass-market image.
weekend because it's quite It's quite
soon. But do we have a rough timeline? I
know it's still very, very loose stages.
right?
BYD is the amount of investments you
might need to spend into
you know, if they're considering
building up a team. Maybe more
I guess uh
economical option would be for BYD maybe
buying into an existing team or do some
partnerships
as we've seen with other Chinese
automakers have done in the past such as
Geely.
Other than F1, BYD may also look to Le
Mans, the really famous endurance
racing. So, there are several options
out there for BYD. And I think it's
probably going to really assess
you know, the amount of investments
required versus the payoff they might
get.
push. How How's that going for BYD now?
for BYD given that, you know, they've
been known as this affordable brand for
such a long time. Um
you know, in the beginning even compared
against Tesla, they were seen as the
more um affordable cheaper option. But
now BYD has launched these uh very
expensive upmarket brands such as the
Yangwang series, uh which is priced at 1
million yuan or above. And BYD has also
built racing tracks uh in China hoping
to really attract customers with this
need for speed, uh you know, more
uh upscale customers, you know, that
maybe wouldn't have considered BYD
before, but now with more expensive
offerings, BYD is really hoping to get
better margins from these brands.
there, our automotive reporter uh on all
things yeah, BYD. Maybe they'll make it
to the next next season of Drive to
Survive. I don't know.
driver to drive it, right? Oh.
think about it? BYD
short-lived, but yes, we we needed some
more Chinese presence uh in the F1. Um
speaking of which, of course, there you
go. There he is. Um we were talking
about, you know, battery stocks
obviously. Um there's been certainly
some bright spots in all of this here.
Um as we tilt more to the EV space, I
guess. But take a look at what it comes
to CATL and NIO results that really
talked about the whole the energy
independence that China has. Optical
names also were stronger here because of
Oracle server demands and what we saw in
some of those indications there. So,
certainly those things are rallying
quite hard here today in China.
here for for for battery for CATL,
right? And I think Tencent not the same
can be said. I think we're still up but
not to the extent of yesterday, which is
perhaps why when you look at Hang Seng
Index, we are
coming off highs uh already as far as
that's concerned. Obviously, we still
Oh, actually no, my mistake. We didn't
see a
a leg up here just now. I wonder
actually why. Okay, let's have a look at
uh what's going on underneath the hood.
Uh we are entering the last hour of the
morning session. It's It's so it is
quite early there. So, CATL is leading
that. Geely among the big names, of
course, moving
uh to the upside. MSCI Asia Pacific 1.7%
so it's the rally continues [music]
across the region, uh the Asian equity
complex here.
show. Insight is next. Stay with us.