TITLE: What the Iran War Means for Dubai's Luxury Boom | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 3314  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-23T14:09:01+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R_z59oHRYT8
SHA256: f9e2aacc4005fba01ff9327095a736eef8bc5df367b79416caf558406f8d74cd

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [100%] &gt;&gt; 100 100%.
  [17%] took out 17% of Qatar's export capacity.
  [1031] Hiten Samani. He is the founder of 1031
  [2022] around early 2022 there was this
  [3.8] about 3.8 million people at the moment.
  [5.8] surge by to 5.8 million by 2040. So
  [2040] surge by to 5.8 million by 2040. So
  [70%] 70%. Uh and this all stems from the
  [2021] $6 billion since 2021.
  [40%] represents more than 40% of the global
  [2000] starting in the 2000s and definitely in
  [2020] the 2020s they've been flowing towards
  [1.5] of at least a $1.5 trillion pool of

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
episode of the Odd Thoughts podcast. I'm
Tracy Aloway
right now in the Gulf. One of the things
that's been happening is that Iran, of
course, has been sending drones across
the sea and over to the UAE and hitting
various energy infrastructure assets,
but it's also been hitting some
non-energy infrastructure assets such as
hotels, you know, consulates,
residences,
seen, for example, the various strikes.
We're going to talk about Dubai
specifically in this episode. The
interesting thing about Dubai, as we
know, is there's been a lot of people
who moved there. Lots and lots of money
to say the least. But part of the appeal
there is here is an island of stability.
Not just an island. And this is what the
part that interests me.
not just an island of stability within
the context of the Middle East. There is
this growing perception all around the
world particularly in rich countries
where people don't like what's going on
with taxes where they don't like feel
safe about the trajectory of politics in
these countries etc. this sort of
ongoing feeling of deme deterioration of
various flavors where they're from and
it's like you know what I want to live
in a country that has low crime a high
level of stability and sort of you know
to be crude escape the failing west exit
as they say and sort of the idea of exit
loyalty and voice and so forth
because in addition to styling itself as
this sort of island proverbial island of
stability They also make real islands,
right? Real islands. That's true. But
they've also styled themselves as, and
I'm stealing this from um the guest that
I will introduce in just a minute or
two, but they've styled themselves as
the capital of capital. Yeah. Right. So,
here is this region that has an enormous
amount of money from oil wealth. And a
lot of that money has been flowing into
not just real estate in the region
itself, but real estate externally in
the west. We know that there are big
sovereign wealth funds in the Middle
East and they invest in all sorts of
things lately. There's been a lot of
private debt investment um which is an
interesting one given the concerns
around uh private lending at the moment.
They've invested in famously US
treasuries, tech stocks like the UAE,
Saudi Arabia are huge huge forces when
it comes to tech valuations at the
moment. And so when you kind of start
connecting all of these things together,
you have to ask what is the situation in
Iran actually mean, not just for the
idea of Dubai and Abu Dhabi as this sort
of expat paradise, but also as this
locus of an enormous amount of money
that tends to flow around the world.
place where those with means, those with
like lots of money are feeling like this
is this is arguably the future. This is
where I want to set up shop. Ray Dalio
has a family office that's in the UAE
and so forth. And you know, historically
there have been these places, these
places where capital wants to be either
have a literal or sort of figurative
footprint. Switzerland of course long
time in that category. Singapore perhaps
similar but you have people in the west
uh you have a lot of people in the UK
and you're like you know what this is
where I'm going this is my bet on the
future right I'm betting my future the
future of my money the future of my
business somehow to be doiciled
figuratively or literally in Dubai the
UAE etc
particular has done which is it's
achieved this sort of diplomatic or
strategic ambiguity I guess you could
say where it's a place where everyone
from the US to Russia and to some extent
Iran can do business. Right? So there's
a big question over whether that
continues at all. Anyway, we do in fact
have the perfect guest. Um I actually
think this is a really good way to look
at the sort of interconnection of global
capital and some of the gray market
stuff that happens in in the UAE is
through property and commercial property
in particular.
say this is not the first time. You
know, we've talked about the UAA,
certainly we've talked about the Gulf,
but it's even prior to the last few
weeks in my mind, I've thought I want to
do more on this topic specifically. Um,
in England, it's a very big deal. It's a
very big part of the sort of news and
politics. How many of their wealthy have
left over the years to go to the UAE and
so forth? I wonder to some extent the
UAE and this I'm not I'm not the first
person to make uh this observation but
like the you know if you imagine this
place with an extraordinary amount of
abundant natural resources etc a world
in which there is an extreme and it
makes America look very pale in
comparison an extreme gap between the
halves and the have knots etc. Sometimes
I think about like, you know, is the
future of the world essentially dubified
where you have this very tiny slice of
people who are just insanely wealthy, a
kind of, you know, to use a popular
parliament, a permanent underclass
within the same thing. A place where
there a lot of these successful people
are like something you talk a lot about,
which is is the future of the economy
just like people who look really good
and so forth. No, for real. Yeah. And
you know, we know that it's a home to a
lot of influencers taking photos in
front of iconic hotels on man-made
beaches, etc. I have this feeling that
there is a version of the world that
looks like the UAE for better or worse.
So, I've just been thinking both
literally and sort of um metaphorically,
we need to understand these dynamics of
the UAE better. It's funny because when
I was in Abu Dhabi and people asked me
what it was like living there, I used to
say it's like living in Texas in the
sense that you spend a lot of time in
the shopping mall, you spend a lot of
time in your car and it's hot all the
time and you don't really see that many
people out on the street. Now I kind of
think, well, you know, maybe Abu Dhabi
is the blueprint for uh some places in
Texas. But anyway,
Uh you know what it looks like is it
looks like Miami. And if you've spent
any time like on North Collins Avenue
and some of the architecture and hotels,
etc. there, when I've looked at some of
the recent photos, including
unfortunately one of the hotels that got
hit, I was like, this could be like this
could be a building that went up two
years ago in like somewhere in Miami
Beach. So, so much to discuss. All
right, rather than us uh spending more
time discussing this, we do in fact have
the perfect guest, someone who's been on
the podcast before talking about real
estate for the ultra wealthy and someone
who has personal connections to Dubai as
well. We're going to be speaking with
Hiten Samani. He is the founder of 1031
media and publisher of the promote. So
Hiten, thanks so much for coming back on
the podcast.
do you think about, you know, Dubai's
reputation in the world in recent years?
I would add to it. So, not only is it
styled itself as a safe haven to do
business, I think where it has probably
gone further than any country in the
modern era is cherrypicking the kind of
society that an ultra- person would
think about, too. So there's one thing
to be in Singapore and say, "All right,
make your money here, but we have a
Singaporean society that is very
specific, right? In in Abu Dhabi, Dubai,
etc., it's almost like a build your own
bear kind of society. Okay, you're a
wealthy person, come here. The only rule
is don't mess with our politics. You're
never getting involved in anything
related to any sort of democratic
debate. Outside of that, you want to
live a decadent lifestyle, we have
everything set up for you. You want to
live a pious lifestyle, it's all set up,
too. We will guarantee you safety. And
that's obviously the big asterisk why
we're talking today. We'll guarantee you
safety. We'll guarantee you an
incredibly pro business environment. And
you can kind of stitch together this
……（中部抽样）……
existence. I think there is no other
globally. And I think Tracy, you had
of like Casablanca, you know, all these
photos, etc. But like talk to us about
like a certain type of people who has
that but they're like I you know what I
money I'm worried about all this and
chav British sense the chavy British
UK. I'm sick of this. I'm going to go
storm, they pretty much do.
ways that you're not picking up.
significant than it is financially
around early 2022 there was this
Yeah,
in Miami, which is Russian wealth,
other places, Dubai is very com I'm
the '90s that was number was probably
so, right? That's going to be a big
but but it's always terrible, right? So
is the government is really on it.
single day. The the joke is that people
new intersection etc. But uh they're
cohesion. There's a lot going on and I I
years? So you mentioned the influx of
huge population jump. But I'm curious
Land prices are up by a factor of 40 to
super prime luxury market in Dubai,
billion of sales just in the super prime
this is something we that is mirrored in
some land banking and because land has
stuff that is that is blowing up now in
$6 billion since 2021.
is a very diverse on paper city, right?
obviously Latin Americans of various
know what I mean. They sort of dress the
kind of looking the same, etc. They have
into Dubai guy? [laughter] Do you know
sport their ice on the wrist, right? And
wrist.
important. The car I remember vividly I
don't smoke it all the time now. But I
friend. We went home to switch cars.
This is a very common thing that has
ethnic enclaves,
has only become more accentuated now.
privilege too, right? like you can t
fancy restaurant, a lot of the people
noticeable. Yeah, I think I think Tracy
hierarchy that used to be so pronounced
hearing just on the ground in Dubai at
circulates externally. So, while we have
you hearing from friends and family on
problem that you kind of alluded to that
in the region in general. So a lot of us
have been certain things right there was
of thing that they see. But in general
oasis of calm and stability. Right? I I
all times. And there is a similar
number one thing that investors tout in
again, we don't know how how bad this
absolutely stunning.
I think he is a little bit more
countries. Right? That is that is the
particular, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait
clientele is has this United Nations
entering what they call you know the
whatever AI sort of are talked about in
of that permanent underclass and that
Horatio Alger stories in Dubai tend to
yachts. That is the kind of story you do
role until you leave and you will always
some perspective on an area is um go to
going on? It's still to this day, if you
are you're going to see a lot of butts
artificial island chain in the
different than it would have been say a
out. I think the Wall Street Journal
probably taken a couple here in this
the depraved west. That is not the
broader western ideals and only cares
that's very much the case. I I think
don't seem to care as much.
that if you're a citizen on the ground,
thinking about geotagging. We know that
drones to know where they're going and
actually been flowing uh externally in
collectively so it's called the big four
they were probably mostly focused on
let's call it more exotic alts right
investors both as LP so limited partners
when PNC sold a 14 billion stake in
over the tentacles are so incredibly
as this conflict drags on is will that
this
quickly get out of this hole because it
I think it would be really interesting
like to say investors like certainty and
because people carry it in their pockets
So far in this war is there anything
example that I pointed to is the first
okay let let's assess the situation
he's so good
about him on Sultano Kasami's cultural
kind of the Egyptian coastal
future, right? It's it's like a $35
see all the stuff happening with your
about, and we'll talk about private
frontiers of the new economy, I don't
money. The various funds stitched
go on. I'm not a an expert on that. But
and
during the worst of the conflict but if
more pressure on government finances,
of revenue are real estate, tourism, and
any departures in the way that I
back then. But I think they've done a
Visa or the Trump Gold card. It's kind
leave,
on the table, right? And then the the
will start getting shaky and again one
involvement in that right either by
an arm of the state now
this is an absolutely insane market. So,
like I need to get in while this market
luxury market in the world as a
bargain right so
has the best functioning government in
States, in the UK, in France, in Europe,
that works? We often think that uh
paper to think that that would be
it about how it's structured where
society in which things just seem to
make money, it's yours. No one takes it
on the ground. They build roads all the
person living here that makes half a
it is a little more state crafty, right?
and then is repeated and amplified by
society. Everyone from athletes to
there's gratitude and part of it is
because a lot of that money, you know,
and only growing. And I think a good
the private credit space. They recently
newsletter as well. Abu Dhabi in general
private credit funds that we see right
good midsize fund anymore everyone's got
relevant, we need to keep growing
let's say you had a senior housing, an
fortress or a sixth street, etc., and
that kind of thing, right? So, uh,
his entire web of companies and amazing
is in Abu Dhabi what I I would venture
have sort of infiltrated every aspect of
companies that we talked about. AI
fund, which is their quote lens into the
uh with Open AI, etc. It's had a bit of
there's just
at least the vast majority. talk to us
quickly went to the Gulf and you know
Trump has golf tastes, right? That
of as luxury luxury.
of aspired to, right?
friction on the front recently though.
prospect of in the wake of this whenever
pretty in lock step with the US's policy
for this this
between the two powerhouses the UAE and
and the the joke I think even when Tracy
Saudi's been pushing people to live
……（接近结尾）……
appreciate it.
that conversation, but one of the things
I was thinking was that sort of flywheel
dynamic that Hiten was talking about
towards the end and also just the
interrelatedness of all of this. So I I
think that one of the difficulties is if
you're a sovereign wealth fund in Abu
Dhabi or Dubai at the moment and you've
invested a lot in private credit, a lot
in tech, those areas even independently
of what's happening in the Gulf, there
are concerns around that at the moment,
right? And then if you think that well
maybe the UAE won't be able to sell as
much oil as it has in the past or maybe
some of that tax and tourism revenue is
going to start going down because there
are drone strikes in various cities.
the potential for some real weakness.
much does it really take to change the
trajectory and does it, you know, could
it be as simple as a meaningful
downshift?
Let's say the [clears throat] war ends
fairly soon, but you know, what if you
had a year or two in the wake of it
where there was a significant decrease
in the amount of capital flowing into
the region relative to what's expected?
What are the ripple effects of that? And
again, you know, it's hard to get really
good information from what you said in
the beginning, and I think this is
really key. I do think
does like you see plenty of pictures
where it all sort of looks the same, but
you don't really know about the truth of
it. And I think right now in this moment
there are probably plenty of people say,
you know what, I like the idea of moving
from England. And I think it's really
big. It's it's actually like you our
government doesn't pay attention to
anything big going on domestically or
whatever. I know that this is a very big
part of UK politics right now. The
flight of the welloff who they're
already under a tremendous fiscal
strain. And if you have money and you
don't like the fact that half of your
money is going to the government and all
of these sort of pathologies and
dysfunctions that we see in the UK, it
has become an extremely popular option
to just decamp to Dubai.
you're targeting if you're trying to
attract an extremely wealthy mobile
population into your city, the the
converse of that is that they can leave,
right? like if if for whatever reason
they don't feel safe or they just think
like you know what now is the time for a
really long vacation somewhere else in
the world they can go
this meme the glo there's going to be a
point where there is this global
permanent underclass which is a phrase
and I do feel as though
Dubai is ground zero for this phenomenon
where you have an extremely rich welloff
so uh part of the for a society that has
ev access to every luxury experience
that you could possibly think of and
then there is this layer of people that
will never ascend to that despite living
in the same country. It does not seem
like a place where you could quote work
your way up.
mentioned also the sort of um like UAE
legends like the Horatio algers of the
UAE. I still remember a big one was this
Indian guy called BR Shetty.
called NMC and then it turned out to be
a massive fraud and but he was like the
guy that people would point to as you
know you can make it here.
talking to him.
another episode of the Odd Thoughts
podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alaway.
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Hitsamani. He's at hit Sami. Follow our
producers Carmen Rodriguez at Karman
Armano Bennett atbot. And Kalebrooks at
Kalebrooks. And for more OddLots
content, go to bloomberg.com/odlots.
We have a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 247 in our Discord, [music]
discord.g. GG/Oddlots.
you like it when Joe muses about the
default Miami man, then please leave us
a positive review on your favorite
podcast platform. And remember, if you
are a Bloomberg subscriber, [music] you
can listen to all of our episodes
absolutely adree. All you need to do is
find the Bloomberg channel on Apple
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
Hey. [music]