TITLE: Alibaba Falls as AI Vision Fails to Impress | The China Show 3/20/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5575  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-20T06:34:15+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UCdXKpXE3-Q
SHA256: 4c4efcdef0aaaeeae05595202b27eeb6e8da3e4a35bf2394c4cd3335cb5080d8

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2%] stock. We're down some 6 and 1/2% or so.
  [1%] but Hang Seng is lower by 6/10 of 1%.
  [5%] 5%. We're watching the rest of the
  [67%] When you're talking about a 67% plunge
  [70%] Hong Kong after a nearly 70% plunge in
  [36%] still pretty solid. We're looking at 36%
  [35%] 35% gain pace of growth over the next 5
  [2022] since 2022.
  [40%] roughly 40% category in the next 4 5
  [1.8] about $1.8 billion.
  [9%] rallied some 9% this week already on
  [30%] sort of 30% paid out ratio, dividend
  [2.5] Fed's $2.5 billion renovation of its
  [260000] &gt;&gt; 260,000.
  [1.7%] numbers. We're talking about 1.7% gain
  [3.4%] in revenue versus estimates of 3.4%. So
  [60%] over 60%. It makes up a quarter of their
  [2029] looking at fiscal 2029
  [1980] in the 1980s.
  [1.6] publicly, 1.6 trillion AUM um for the
  [32%] Delton Tech. We're up 32%
  [4000] around that 4,000 level. Key to watch
  [7%] Shanghai crude is also lower by 7% here.
  [4%] lower by about 4% here this morning. So,
  [51%] here. We're we're lower by about 51%
  [6.88] offshore yuan renminbi were at 6.88.
  [15%] 15% this year and furthermore rents also
  [45%] about 45% in New World will contribute
  [2028] which it will come to mature in 2028.
  [32000] is going to start at just under $32,000.
  [100000] UBS 100,000 pre-orders in the first week
  [3%] though. Those shares are down about 3%
  [5000] seeing HS Tech down in sub 5,000 here
  [63%] about a 63% probability of that in the
  [50%] 50% so it's a coin toss here right now
  [10%] if like less than 10% of this maturing
  [1.9%] at sort of 1.8 1.9% level. I don't not
  [2026] 2026, we're going to actually see how
  [3.5] so, in Japan, 3.5 billion, in Taiwan, 3
  [300%] ETF has returned more than 300%.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen and here
in Hong Kong. You're watching the China
Show. I'm Yvonne Man with Annabelle
Droulers.
markets in greater China and our top
stories this morning, Asian stocks
edging higher as oil prices retreat. US
and Israeli leaders seeking to calm
concerns over the Iran war. Israel
saying it will heed President Trump's
call to end attacks on energy
infrastructure.
bet that elevated energy costs will lead
to rate hikes even as the ECB and BOE
follow the Fed in keeping lending costs
on hold.
Hong Kong after a nearly 70% plunge in
quarterly profit, piling more pressure
for its massive AI spending to pay off.
comes to the loan prime rates in China.
A no surprise here is unchanged at the
moment. I think given the fact that, you
know, after MPC, we're expecting some
sort of rate cut and then with the maybe
the loan prime rate would follow. But we
didn't quite see that. Inflation
relatively looking better in China as
well. So maybe they're pushing off uh
that when it comes to cutting these loan
prime rates for now. But I can't wrap my
head around just the the price action
we've seen, Bell, in the last 24 hours,
whether what we saw in the gilts
markets, uh German bonds and the like as
we start pricing in a more hawkish
this Iran situation.
takeaway from all of these meetings this
week as you've got steady rates, but
it's not so steady in terms of the
outlook because it's just been that
continual messaging we're hearing from
central bank makers or policy makers
that that they're just trying to to
grapple essentially with where the
Middle East conflict goes, how extended
it is. And then you're seeing those
gyrations also coming through in the
bond market volatility as well because
it's just unusually elevated. Uh and not
to mention, of course, Alibaba and and
and the numbers we've had on that front
as well.
When you're talking about a 67% plunge
in quarterly earnings here, just goes to
show why they're doubling down or even
quintupling down when it comes to what
the projections for AI are going to be
when it comes to revenue. Just to offset
what's going on when it comes to food
delivery and, of course, e-commerce and
the like.
lot of good news really coming out of
the numbers. Not only do you have that
big spend on AI, but you're also really
feeling the pinch on the e-commerce
front as well and trying to spend to
defend market share.
You're welcome. All right, let's take a
quick look at the market action as well
because, as we said, it's that big focus
on what's happening in the commodity
space. And and certainly these these
messaging that you're getting from the
Israeli US leaders as well around
they're not going to be attacking
essential energy infrastructure,
essentially trying to calm down the
markets. And you've seen that reflected
because we have seen Brent crude WTI
pulling back even though, of course,
you've got to put in the context what
has been a major rally in these since
the start of the conflict. Gold as well
I mean trading fairly steady, but it has
been pulling back essentially for the
past several sessions. Let's take a
look, as we said, bond market activity.
We do have Japan shut today, so we don't
have cash treasuries right now, but we
are just keeping a watch on what's
happening with yields. Really the front
end of the curve is in pricing this
prospect of higher rates from here. But
again, as we said, investors or policy
makers still trying to grapple with
where the conflict heads from here.
Commodities or or FX, rather, I should
note. We did see the dollar slumping
again. It was after we had the ECB, BOE,
BOJ as well just really highlighting the
risk of inflation. So you saw that
pullback in the dollar setting this
morning. But taking a look at how
equities are trading as well in Asia
today because we actually are just
seeing them moving
modestly higher here mostly across the
board. Of course, Australia to the
downside, but but we are just seeing
some modest gains, as I said, being led
there by the likes of the cos but you
can see over in Korea. So, TSMC one
stock to watch and should just mention
this a bit of a different story, but we
do have local media in Taiwan
essentially reporting that TSMC and
actually Samsung as well have have
raised
prices for the sub 5 nanometer nodes, so
they're more advanced technology.
Just again goes into their essentially
tighter capacity and a lot of pricing
power on that front. And as we said,
China just take take a quick look at
what we're expecting ahead of the open
today, but that big focus really on
Alibaba. You're looking at the the ADRs
there, but a sharp plunge overnight.
damper some of the I guess optimism
around stocks here this morning as we
start to see this you know, signs of
maybe possible de-escalation when it
comes to the Iran side of things. Let's
bring in our news desk managing editor
Jill Disis. She joins us now. So, you
heard from you know, the Israeli side of
things, you heard from Trump as well,
both trying to really temper down what's
been going on oil prices and the like,
too.
you know, when you're looking just over
the last couple of days at how much
things had really escalated. I mean,
those Israeli strikes essentially
prompting an incredibly aggressive
response from Iran over the past couple
of days. I mean, that strike on that
liquefied natural gas field in Qatar. I
think Qatar Energy has said that that
cost them about 20 billion US dollars in
revenue over the next year. I mean, we
are looking at massive massive
implications for the global energy
markets with some of these strikes. So,
you know, there's there's certainly that
acknowledgement now when you're looking
at what Trump has said over the past
couple of days, what you we've heard
from Netanyahu earlier, that attempt to
sort of de-escalate some of that
rhetoric because again, Iran has shown
that you know, they're like, "Look, if
you you come for us, we'll come for
you." I mean, you've got you know,
there's there's really massive strikes
you're seeing on your screen just how
far that's really sort of stretched over
that entire region. So, certainly you
know, the those attempts to reassure
investors seem to be working at least
for the moment, but we'll have to see if
that actually turns into some kind of a
you know, long-running de-escalation in
this conflict.
not a time essentially that the Japanese
Prime Minister may have hoped to have
traveled to Washington just given the
pressure that the Trump has been putting
on allies, but it came up as well even a
reference to Pearl Harbor in that
conversation or that meeting he had with
her. But just take a listen to this
first.
And we didn't tell anybody about it.
Because we wanted
surprise. Who knows better about
surprise than Japan?
Okay? Why didn't you tell me about Pearl
Harbor? Okay?
Right?
You know,
he's asked me uh do you believe in
surprise?
I think much more so than us.
and and certainly
I mean, what you're calling it a
cavalier attitude, but but just talk us
through how that would have been
perceived and the significance of that.
see the look on Takaichi's face there
just lips pursed like absolutely trying
not to react in that moment. And we had
actually heard um you know, from from
other officials that um you know, Japan
was expecting quite a few you know, you
know, sort of off-the-cuff things from
Trump, but you know, not not really
that. I mean, look like this is a really
really difficult to manage relationship
and obviously for Takaichi uh really
difficult for her to come into this
because um you know, while the Japan is
an important ally for the United States
uh it's it's it's pretty laid out in
their constitution um to not get
……（中部抽样）……
involved in these types of global
specifics of what exactly it is that
significant
the tension as as as you said, Joe. Joe
pressure on the pivot to AI and cloud as
half of that. And net income sliding by
within under an hour. So they spent a
you look at the macro backdrop, the
organizational restructuring to to
35% gain pace of growth over the next 5
know, the the key engineer leaving as
business. We'll have more on that ahead
can predict what it will be. But it is a
Andrew Bailey and ECB President
you know, a few hours ago yesterday and
three 25 basis point hikes by the end of
been hearing from central banks about
a lot of central bankers this week is is
remain pretty calm with our allocation
So,
remaining very uh agile, just be ready
looking to add any exposure to to oil,
we've seen still tech continuing to push
bullish on.
do have certain mechanism in the pension
you know.
years. Um
America.
by now. It's just an extension or
And just taking a look at how Alibaba's
also a lot of spending and pressure in
during that call. So certainly we'll
looks like we're seeing a decent
Xiaomi could be interesting, too, but we
we've been seeing, but it seems like it
year as well. So, we'll have more coming
slightly higher off the back of that.
hawkish here. And certainly that could
Shanghai composite is pretty much flat
seeing massive moves in the LME
just a bit here. Certainly that does
you might be seeing more of the price
Meituan is actually up some 2%. Uh
uh it's mostly lower when it comes to
volatility, right? So we talked about
play out here. So, when it comes to you
numbers. So, the bank cut its its price
sentiment has been shifting. That last
this conflicting market sentiment that
stack capabilities on the AI
weakness that we're seeing when it comes
years, right? On the AI cloud revenue
we're actually seeing that accelerated
the the story as well this week was the
now we're clearly shifting into this new
consumer-facing uh uh usage. Uh so, I I
that it has this whole WeChat ecosystem
stage early stage of adopting regards to
constantly. So, these are all
know, their enterprise solutions and so
huge amount of interest, right? You
kind of going into the next stage,
these developers, professional
that recently listed, but there's
clear that you got to have, you know,
companies are becoming token factories
large intent platforms versus the the
the the price of some of its cloud
strong pricing power, right? Especially
Tencent earnings as well. It seems like
the methodology we're being using is we
would say you know Tencent's now into a
claw workshops. Ellie's ready. Ellie's
hair. You still look good though.
that a plan to restructure its delivery
billion in a new financing round.
been telling us is that the billionaire
outside investors now.
market. You know, the housing prices are
to some designated investor or will
out of the woods or is there still more
which it will come to mature in 2028.
up by scanning the QR code in your
billion-dollar renovation of its
could now happen in mid-May. Trump was
been a big week for Xiaomi with
But I think it's just a matter of I
this whole Iran situation does it just
out with earnings a little bit later on
mixed moves here, but but you've got
looking a little bit gloomy here in Hong
situation. They have you know at least
it's sort of which one do you listen to
what we've got mostly across the board
We've seen at the front end of the curve
their next meeting. So that is certainly
under pressure essentially with these
So
rates with the surging oil prices
messaging it's about fighting inflation.
macro side is how long can markets
into next week?
with where inflation is headed. We're
something that's a a good source of info
out the risks from the Iran conflict.
these questions are being fed into LLMs
I guess a lot of people are also looking
happening in the Middle East. And to
on the latest now.
you know, the Qatar was saying that's 20
that's targeting critical energy
it's sometimes really difficult to sort
like I think that the
on all sides here but again because
perspective of President Trump really
because we wanted
achieve on this trip?
unpopular at home. What she was able to
help. Japan's more helpful than NATO.
obviously a very critical US ally here.
Global Wealth Management is joining us.
strategy Christopher Wood speaking with
that that takes and the pressure that
the headlines when it comes to Iran. Our
that view?
still have rate cut or
not going to property market, they go
we're talking about high single digits,
They did try to, you know, sort of give
But negative any of the disappointments
looking into power
this year?
already prepared for the challenging
actually help some of the miners in the
economic growth or even recession.
Yeah, and it's interesting as well just
Uh longer
Do you think those moves that we've seen
in our new weekly segment ETF IQ Asia.
Fed's $2.5 billion renovation of its
to the Middle East conflict.
100 gigawatts of solar capacity. Asia
given you just had the RBA rate raise,
Open Claw is not just a good thing, it's
Uh it really has been dragged down by
certainly going to be a key question
marks really around the e-commerce
December in particular. They've actually
um you know, in the next set of results?
trying to get our heads around agnetic
that actually changes not just the
to to the numbers, too?
have a timeline for that.
it was seen as a value company and one
that's great, but what sort of margin
the CapEx cost is sitting on the cash
of relying too much on hope that AI can
adjusted EBITDA.
drive the uptake of AI through Jentica
AI names. There's not a commercial
the Jentica AI, a lot more token
that presence itself. So, I do think
uh, I am on the lookout for the next
growing ETF space in our new weekly
Intelligence for early March, with the
we're currently in the panic phase, so a
the likes of semiconductors. Um and
Asia and America. So, it locked in the
this, but South Korea powers a third of
alternative, and across all the hydrogen
Hynix. So we call it the chips and dips
Reggie, thank you so much for staying up
……（接近结尾）……
cross-listed across seven exchanges. And
so if you look at the growth of ETFs, um
the field is growing, and I think that
market structure, exchange rules,
particularly in these new countries,
need to evolve to allow ETFs
to grow. Here uh in Uruguay, um you
can't move offshore, so you want to use
an ETF, you have to put it in a
structured product. And if you look at
the average uh fee here in in this
region, it's like 2.5% for a retail
player, but yet ETFs are around 50 basis
points. And so, the marketplace, I
think, needs to allow for competition,
and then market makers like myself need
to move into these regions to bring
liquidity. So, there's still some growth
uh to occur, and more of my competitors
are recognizing what I see
and the opportunity to grow.
you know, it seems like
of course, you've got the plain vanilla
ETFs that that track a particular asset
class, but there's there's levered,
there's inverse. There's a lot of
different types of ETFs out there. What
are you seeing as as the the biggest
potential?
levered ETFs is one of their favorites
uh to utilize and deploy capital. But,
it really comes down to really, I think,
active managers and then tokenization
of ETFs.
Uh and so, it comes down to themes. And
so, whatever the flavor of the month is,
you'll see all the action because, you
know, investors will pile in. But, long
core, I think, is really around uh AI,
uh chips, uh and then also renewable
energy around EV vehicles. I mean, it
feels like that's the tail that's going
to wag the dog, but if you look at Korea
uh with just all of their growth around
chips and their leadership, you know,
you you know, you got to follow that
market, too. So, I think you'll see more
adoption and more ETFs come out with
themes allow retail players to grow, but
the real story is around active managers
launching ETFs away from mutual funds.
Globally.
That was Reggie Brown there principal at
GTS securities and you can tune in to
ETF IQ Asia. That's every Friday here on
the China show. We bring you more
analysis and conversations with top
market players and newsmakers. More
ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
look ahead to next week and certainly it
could be pretty busy. On Sunday that
there is that China development forum to
watch out for. Sinopec earnings also
come out on Sunday as well. A Milken
Global Investor Symposium that happens
here in Hong Kong on your Monday
morning. We'll have a team there on the
ground and on Thursday the G7 foreign
ministers meet also in France as well.
I'm guessing they'll be talking a little
bit more about the Iran situation. Um,
but yeah, I mean, if you're looking for
a little pick-me-up against all this
kind of headlines and and whatnot, uh,
let's talk about BTS, right? Uh, you
know, it's going to be a treat this
weekend. If you've been missing them for
the last 4 years, they're making a
comeback, right? And it's going to be a
massive, massive event.
take a look at the numbers. So, there's
a freak show that's going to be a free
show rather that's taking place tomorrow
in Seoul.
Do you know how many fans are expected
there?
That is wild.
palace. Um, yeah, I mean, it's it's
crazy, right? They're dropping a new
album.
They're going to be live streaming with
Netflix. So, if you can't fly there like
those 260,000 fans, um, you can still
watch it streaming. But yes, I mean, if
you talk about the amount of flights and
really the meals, the hotel bookings,
everyone trying to get this new album as
well. Arirang.
It drops the day before, of course,
their performance. So, yeah.
you're talking about maybe from this
free concert alone, a hundred and
seventy-seven million dollars of
economic impact.
A single stop or Taylor Swift average
per concert bounce was around 50 to 70
million per US stop.
seventy-seven million dollars in
economic impact.
Look at Adele. Every time she comes up
with an album.
She does very well. All right, that's it
for us on the China Show. Have a great
weekend.