TITLE: Asia Market Meltdown Worsens as Iran Concerns Mount | The China Show 3/4/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5523  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-04T06:22:38+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4O0bzG0SLQM
SHA256: 3588675050538ee7589fd75d213161120a4af8a02fec6c1b3dd23e75063516fb

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [5%] year it was around 5% and despite the
  [10%] Feb 26 high to more than 10%. The big
  [20%] what really matters, oil is about 20% of
  [30%] you have to remember that China gets 30%
  [3%] We've got the broader Asian gauge of 3%.
  [90%] upwards of 90% depending on the month of
  [2%] than 2% to the downside as I said very
  [4%] we're down to 4% losses when it comes to
  [2026] rigid growth target uh for 2026. Last
  [2030] will run through 2030, and that is boost
  [45%] 45% 3 years ago. It's now 15% last year
  [2008] 40 billion in 2008.
  [15%] 45% 3 years ago. It's now 15% last year
  [52.1] rating dog PMI manufacturing 52.1
  [8%] here right now after we saw those 8%
  [2.5] a $2.5 billion into a special purpose
  [2022] comparisons for instance to to 2022 the
  [49.7] non-manufacturing as well. 49.7 is that
  [99%] Pakistan buys 99% of their LG from
  [14%] We're still up some close to 14% uh for
  [1%] is down to 1% uh right now and Shanghai
  [4000] Composite we are just hitting that 4,000
  [49.3] saw the previous month. 49.3
  [49.5] non-manufacturing also 49.5. Also a miss
  [2025] story of 2025 5 of last year was the
  [2013] Belton Road initiative in 2013. So there
  [50.2] uh we expecting for around a 50.2 sort
  [56.7] services uh even stronger 56.7
  [6%] down another 6% today, Bill. Yeah, these
  [3.6] seeing outflows of about $3.6 billion.
  [1500] past the 1500 level which is closely
  [36%] currency space there's about a 35 36%
  [1550] the one would likely trade around 1550
  [12%] another 7 12% here today so you know the
  [1979] PRC were established in 1979.
  [2009] in 2009 for the Korean Juan. You're
  [1.8] figures, that's about 1.8 billion Hong
  [2028] 2028 and they not have not manage to
  [1.5] would inject 1 1 billion to 1.5 billion.
  [12000] which has topped more than 12,000 uh

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong, you're watching the
China show. I'm Ivon Man with Annabelle
Jewelers. We're counting down to the
open of markets in greater China. And
our top stories this morning, we have
Asian stocks falling for a third day.
Korea is very much leading the losses.
Oil as well, Brent crude just coming
online and you're seeing it sort of
steadying somewhat. Investors really
weighing this US plan to ensure escort
tankers as well passing through the
straight of Hormuz. China's foreign
minister urging an immediate ceasefire
in a call with his Israeli counterpart
while questions mount over US objectives
in the war with Iran. Also ahead,
leaders of Wall Street's biggest private
market players warn investors have
reason to worry amid a wave of
withdrawals.
China's most important political
gatherings are about to begin later
today. Officials will unveil the 15th
5-year plan, including a goal to spur a
significant increase in consumption.
We were hoping for some sort of relief
rally. We certainly saw that in the US.
Not quite the case when it comes to
Asia. Things seem to be fading,
especially when it comes to risk assets
like equities here this morning. Korea
continues to see a lot of pain here. Oil
markets, as you mentioned, have steadied
in some ways given some of the
assurances that we're getting from
President Trump when it comes to oil and
tanker escorts here through the straight
of Hormuz. But still a lot of risk
involved and on and how this is going to
get implemented as well though.
team had a really fascinating analysis
on this this idea that they can
essentially reopen the straight of
Hormuz. There's a lot of different costs
in equipment, resources, commercial
vessels as well. I mean, this is a very
difficult, very challenging task and I
guess oil trade is again still really
trying to assess that because you're
seeing Brent crude very much steady as
we come online this morning.
to be risks to how it works, how they're
going to be doing this. Obviously, it's
not going to be something that's very
swift and you know, oil flows are going
to resume administrative horm uh anytime
soon. uh because there is still this
risk they say of maybe drones uh in that
waterway there that could be attacking
tankers as well. So um that certainly is
one thing that we're seeing and we're
digesting across these markets, but
right now uh that knee-jerk reaction
still is to sell uh right now and we're
not quite seeing that much dip buying as
of yet. We we continue to watch of
course the market impact and what
President Trump says was he he still
believes that oil prices will drop once
the war with Iran is over. if we have a
little high oil prices for a little
while. Uh but as soon as this ends,
those prices are going to drop, I
believe, lower than even before.
reaction to this because as we said, it
really is traders just trying to
understand the nuances of this US plan
to escort vessels through the straight
of Hormuz. Uh you are just seeing again
Brent crew WTI fairly steady this
morning, but we are really seeing the
implications. For instance, Iraq has
started to to cut its its oil production
as well. And this is you're talking
about OPEC's second biggest producer
here. So clearly these ramifications are
wide and you've seen that very notably
in European gas futures as well which
have absolutely surged. So we're leaving
that reaction there. Gold of course is
is one to watch given you're seeing that
flow back into safe havens. But
certainly the dollar is very much uh re
reflecting that as well. We'll get to FX
moves in a moment. Safe to say though
you are just seeing traders that are
very much pulling back. Uh from the
Cosby in particular we've actually seen
it now extending its its fall from its
Feb 26 high to more than 10%. The big
lagards there are the chip players. So
SK highix Samsung of course we talk a
lot about the Cosby 2 essentially but
but you are just seeing that under
pressure. Taiwan just coming online more
than 2% to the downside as I said very
much that story is in FX as well. uh you
have seen the dollar really sort of
reclaiming uh I it it safe haven status
the the sort of ultimate safe haven play
as well uh but but certainly stifling
those debasement trades or debasement
fears we've seen really around around uh
the the the the issues or or whether
we'd actually continue to see it
operating as a safe haven trade but very
much you are just seeing it again uh
moving against its major peers Korean or
Chinese equities rather because of
course we're looking ahead to the open
Very interesting timing for an MPC to be
kicking off when you have all of these
geopolitical concerns and certainly
China trying to to ignite the
consumption story in the country as
well. But we're going to get these
growth targets later Thursday, 5-year
plan at the end of next week.
interesting, right? It's weeks away from
a meeting with Trump that President Xi
is going to have and it's in the midst
of this whole Iran situation. So
certainly how they're going to be
boosting or at least talking about
domestic uh issues is going to be a key
thing to watch. especially when it comes
uh to self-sufficiency. Right now, now
that you talk about disruptions in
supplies around the world, that might be
creating a bit more emphasis for China
here this time around. For more on the
Middle East situation, let's bring in
our politics editor, Laura Davidson.
She's with us here right now. So, this
whole plan to help escort and ensure
tankers from the US, to what extent do
you think that really calms some of the
nerves that we're seeing across maybe
oil traders and the like right now?
sort of an initial reaction and then
things kind of flattened out. What we're
seeing from Washington right now is a
lot of grasping for solutions without a
lot of clarity about how these will
actually come to pass. You know, Trump
mentioned he invoked the uh development
finance corporation which sort of a
quasi agency in the US. They don't do
insurance. This is not something that
they have an off-the-shelf program they
can just sort of get up and start
running. They would need to figure out
the risk. They would need to price
these. They would need to, you know, get
the whole infrastructure of this up and
running. This is something that take
could take weeks or months, you know.
So, that's not a quick fix solution
here. Trump also suggested the US
military could help escort though if
there are drones or other uh sort of
threats in the region. You know, unclear
exactly how willing the US would be able
to commit to that also while waging a
war separately.
President Trump's comments around who
could be the next leader and he's saying
it could be someone who's just as bad
essentially. I mean, if the whole idea
isn't around regime change, what
actually is the rationale and and and
his ultimate objective then?
the president really in real time in
public grappling with what the next
steps look like. You know, just two days
ago, he said he had identified three
people he thought would be good uh
leaders of Iran. Then just a couple
hours later says that oops, well
actually all of those are dead, so we
need to come up with other options. Um
and and now saying that he, you know,
kind of at least acknowledging that he
may not get to pick here, that this is
not uh he doesn't get a vote. Uh you
know, this there's a sort of a
three-person committee running the
country right now. Uh you know, Iran
will make that decision. Uh but it there
doesn't seem to be any sort of coherent
strategy and that really that the that
the White House has articulated. We've
heard different things from Vance, from
……（中部抽样）……
Rubio, from the president himself, even
And let's get more on the markets. Uh
markets have done very very well um sort
easy. We've had you know US growth very
terms of what this could mean. um um and
past. OPEC coming together to
China is the biggest oil importer in the
what an interesting story would have
to take this in consideration in terms
done well as well. So is this time a bit
with the developments if this ends up
sort of this inflationary reaction but
essentially um moving away from a big
China is more vulnerable because again
other markets for instance you know um
correction to buy back a bit of gold
reaceleration. Um US is spending, fiscal
poorly as as as equities and as a result
that rating private gauge as well. So,
MPC that CPPCC opening ceremony to watch
to shore up weapons stocks. And to that
going to be a good print just given that
Asian equities today which is risk off
Iran situation might be something that
and straight of Hormuz. Now, Washington
is clearly a choke point that is in the
unknowns. There are more unknowns than
like Iraq for instance has already
insurance companies are able to provide
Pandora's box. So, I think yes, the
I wrote about yesterday in our energy
example. Um, you know, it does it make
can get over this. And quite frankly, in
question of how long does this outage
check of markets as we go to break. Uh
the brunt, it's the Cosby. You're
they do need cheap energy they do need
we were briefly hitting $85 for Brent.
psychological level once again. So there
have your PMI numbers coming through
straight month will be interesting of
something that is keeping investors in
disruptions are going to occur. Um but
certainly is something that they're
China because it is the most important
afternoon over at the Great Hall of the
of a round if that makes any sense. What
targets, but in the next 5-year plan,
Iran right now which throws kind of um
main economic leaders. So, we're talking
you know President Trump and she are
Kifung on the Chinese side and then
forward. In fact, of course, Wangi, the
us out of Beijing here this morning.
might not be happening at a speed that
potentially sort of shift a lot of the
And not only that, um I think another
the world. China undershoots on that
we're seeing fiscal stimulus happening
days changes that from an an inflation
Korea is selling off quite massively. I
that's about positioning because they've
follow the kind the AI cap expend which
free cash flow going into buybacks.
time being US has been more resilient
the markets right now. George, thanks
check markets coming up over this break.
is joining us now from Shanghai is Jang
because the re there is recent attack on
stability can be restored to the region.
according to China's foreign policy,
to maintain good relations. s um with
of the platforms for different sides to
somewhat fading or at least limited now?
States because I would say the
how these two powers interact with each
States, a lot of people are arguing that
okay if he reduces his resources in the
does not want to bear big cost for that.
actually a surprise to the upside here
Maybe that's what is driving a lot of
Welcome back to the chart show. Here's a
down another 6% today, Bill. Yeah, these
essentially this US escort plan for the
week. I think one of the worst weeks
fact see the the the the inflationary
data in. Right now, it's just too soon
seeing in terms of the dollar. What are
been having um a fantastic time this
today? You know, there there's still a
cap space. The two big memory chip
investors have taken about $3 billion uh
foreigners in particular fleeing the
this week it's a U-turn a lot of its
ringing for trading. So, definitely
Japan imports, I believe, about 90 odd
intervention from authorities if the yen
how do you see the trading action for
draw down in the star 50 which very much
we're live on the ground in Beijing as
look at that Cosby gauge we are down
also bearing the brunt of this amount of
for Chinese leaders as they head into
whatever we're going to see in the in
further tariff proofing it by boosting
want a a stable economy. I'm expecting
economy is clearly slowed. We have yet
their China director, Dan Wong. Uh,
projects listed by NDRC on the
was really what led the Chinese economy.
is actually to boost fertility. So this
that that that could happen? Is it is it
AI industry will absorb a lot of the new
see it constraining the uh the the
security with financial security and
in this way.
the top level of policy commitment
up with the West in technology. This is
Dan, great to have you this morning.
for 20 minutes. More ahead. This is
emphasizing the importance of strong
this will be a shakeout. I don't think
next year if it continues than you ever
business is not at the will not in the
we are in a trading halt that's in
straight day. We talked about that
seeing the likes of Samsung SKH really
they're speaking with are talking about
statistically outsized moves across the
of what's to come?
certainly is going to be a key question
right you're starting to see the market
yet ho how how longasting this conflict
producer than it has been in years past
right? Um the biggest plunge or at least
just emerging market currencies of late.
prospects of gold are still there. They
our M live strategist Mark Cranfield in
vulnerable which has had a really good
underweight the dollar. There have been
possibly can, then Korean stocks is just
positioning as we came into this week
classes. A lot of things are priced in
global financial crisis, the US dollar
that we're seeing in markets. what he
think it's a little bit of I think
now. um if if it all peters out in a few
the month, which um is a bit it just
the month, this could really get pretty
as well. The yen has been relatively
morning. That's our M live strategist
out now that things have opened up and
there are still some pretty outsized
we're seeing when it comes to Iran, the
one and a half billion but right now it
the last couple minutes there. Bloomberg
also Blackstone have stalled. A key
still uh there that they're supposed to
to enter into to assets in this city and
these families has always been the
they need to deal with longer term down
groups. Dozens of people have been
citizens and entities.
and Riyad until March 14th. So, another
……（接近结尾）……
and and and Etihad airlines you know
starting resuming some flights to get
people out. So uh there is still a broad
effort by the airline industry to to get
people out not get people to transit and
whatnot. So, uh, yeah, in the next few
days, we'll see how things fare, but,
uh, clearly for now, uh, there's a a
pretty broad disruption overall.
transit hub as well, uh, particularly
for people traveling from this part of
the world, Australia to Europe in
particular as well. So, how did the
airlines in this region then are they
are they capitalizing on this? I'm
thinking of, of course, Cafe A,
Singapore Airlines as well, but others.
Yeah, you do see the the Asian airlines
in prime position to take advantage uh
whether it be just because of the the
the way in which they have similar
business models to uh the Gulf carriers
and the Gulf carriers know you know
operate around 10% of international
capacity which has just been taken out
at a stroke. So, and then you do see the
Asian airlines uh primarily benefiting,
but you know, it's all soft and it's all
little comfort when you see oil prices,
you know, jumping uh and so everyone's
eating higher costs at the moment.
joining us. That was our Asia Aviation
and Transport reporter Danny Lee there.
And subscribers can get more on the Iran
conflict. That's in today's big take.
Looking again at the energy story about
how the Iran war oil oil shock is
threatening to unleash a wave of global
inflation. For terminal subscribers, the
the function is NI big take. It's also
available on bloomberg.com.
All right, we're checking markets here
right now. We are continuing to see uh
pretty big moves here when it comes to
Cosby after returning from that circuit
breaker that was triggered in that
trading halt. uh we have come off I have
to say some of the initial sort of
losses here but we're still talking
about 7% downside here when it comes to
the costby as well as the cause stack
here today Hong Kong and China looking
relatively speaking a bit better hang
lower by about 450 points we got plenty
more to come this is Bloomberg
um we've been trying not to call it
panic um but I think in Korea you could
say in some ways there is a bit of panic
selling here right now after you talk
about the biggest two-day losses we're
talking about uh since 2008 uh it has
entered into a technical correction And
we've come back from that trading halt.
Uh still seeing some pretty pronounced
moves to the downside here. So uh it
does seem like it's a bit like fall
catching a falling knife here this
morning when it comes to Asian equities.
A lot of it has to do with of course the
dollar story given how much it has come
back in the last two days as well. Uh
then again there's still a lot of
uncertainty about really how long these
you know we talked about airline
disruptions, talk about oil and supply
disruptions and the like. So still uh I
think investors are still looking at
right now that knee-jerk reaction is of
course to to sell before you actually
buy on these dips.
that it's the tech heavy story and you
you take a look at those other very tech
heavy benchmarks. You got Taiwan for
instance, Japan. I mean it's it's very
broad-based selling that we're seeing
but still you've got those North Asian
markets that are really taking the
losses. Uh it is as you said that dollar
story and it's certainly been a very bad
start to the week for EMFX and we've
been talking about the dollar that's
just been on a a gain over the past few
sessions but traders really moving back
into that. It's it's it's taking its
position as the safe haven trade.
weakness when it comes to uh the rem 692
levels. Korean one is coming back but we
saw quite a bit of a plunge yesterday.
So it really is more of a catchdown
story for the rest of EMFX and what
they're seeing uh with the wand. Taiwan
dollar is above 31 here right now. Thai
bot is also weakening uh to that 31
level as well. So uh we'll see of course
how US markets and Euro markets but
India markets could be quite vulnerable
as well just given of course their
dependency when it comes to the oil side
of things.