TITLE: Celebration and Mourning: Inside an Iran at War
CHANNEL: The Daily
DURATION_S: 2129  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-02T15:28:53+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RnMYwMquPUo
SHA256: 687c2acaa7047c85313fadd0cd82014e3cec4d21921bb1617a52821da68a2410

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [80%] opponents of the regime, about 80% and
  [20%] the core supporters are about 20%.
  [1979] Revolution came in 1979? Exactly.
  [1989] succeeded him in 1989.
  [6000] that more than 6,000 people were killed
  [10%] prices [music] rose 10%

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
From The New York Times, I'm Michael
Barbaro. This is The Daily.
Iran with missiles for a second straight
day,
destroying more and more power centers
rights groups, bringing the civilian
death toll there to well over 100.
MEANWHILE,
IRAN UNLEASHED [music] A WAVE OF
retaliatory attacks that proved deadly.
Three US [music] troops were killed in
action, becoming the first Americans to
die in the war. As one nation, we grieve
for the true American patriots who have
made the ultimate sacrifice
for our nation.
But increasingly, all eyes were on the
Iranian government [music] and the
millions of citizens who have long
opposed it.
And the looming question became whether
a weakened Islamic Republic could
actually [music] be toppled by its own
people.
Today,
my colleague, [music] Farnaz Fassihi,
brings us the view of this pivotal
moment from inside Iran.
Farnaz,
thank you for making time for us on a
Sunday. Really appreciate it. Thank you
for having me, Michael.
So, Farnaz, for the people of Iran and
for the massive diaspora of Iranians who
live outside of the country, including
you,
Sunday, today as we speak, is one of
those hinge days in history. There was a
before and there was an after. And right
now, the after is
a world in which Iran's supreme leader,
who has been in power for over three
decades, has been killed and is no
longer in power.
It's one of those historic days that I
think if for every Iranian, whether
you're a supporter of the government or
you're an opponent, whether you live
inside or you live outside, this is a
new day.
This is a new Iran. Mhm. From the moment
we started hearing about Mr. Khamenei
being potentially killed,
my phone started buzzing. I was getting
text messages and phone calls from my
friends and family members.
messages and calls from some of my
sources in Iran who were asking me, "Do
you know anything? Is the news true? Is
he gone? What have you heard?" No matter
what side of the divide you were on,
this was a monumental moment.
the first day of history without Mr.
Khamenei in power. And [music] we don't
know exactly what that's going to mean
yet, but this figure who has loomed very
large for almost four decades [music]
over the fate of Iranians is gone.
Some Iranians were celebrating.
had several video calls with several
people I know in in Tehran who turned on
the camera and showed me cars honking on
the streets.
People cheering. There were fireworks.
People sticking their heads out of the
windows and chanting freedom, freedom,
and this visceral scream.
And for the diaspora who are scattered
all over the world, it was a similar
feeling. I watched a group of family
members congregate on FaceTime. Some
were in the US, some were in Europe,
some were in Iran, and everybody
[clears throat]
did a video call, and some of them were
crying. They were just these tears of
relief and shock and joy even. And then
they celebrated with shots. Wow.
you say diaspora, you quite literally
mean families who were once together in
Iran, and presumably scattered to the
winds across the world once the Islamic
Revolution came in 1979? Exactly.
It feels like a dream for many Iranians
that once they used to all live a few
blocks from each other and have
multi-generational family gatherings.
And under Mr. Khamenei, many of them
have not been able to return to Iran,
and many families have just scattered
like stardust all over the world and
separated from each other.
So, that's clearly the segment of
Iranians both inside and outside the
country who may be on the celebratory
side of the spectrum in the 24-48 hours
since he was killed. What about those
who support him? Presumably, you've been
talking to them as well. What
would you characterize as their
reaction?
For Mr. Khamenei's supporters, this
feels like a big loss.
His supporters started to come out into
the streets
in large numbers and going to mosques
and [music] praying and crying.
under them. Not only have they lost
reverend and believed in, but they've
also lost a political leader
loyalty to.
IT FEELS LIKE THAT IS IN JEOPARDY, that
they don't know whether this Islamic
Republic that they believe in and they
without him.
And you know,
this is the reality of Iran, Michael.
This polarized society
next, whatever form of government comes
next, how are you going to bring these
two sides anywhere close to each other
or is that even possible?
Right. Because the people doing shots in
their homes uncorking champagne,
those people would seem to have a very
hard time reconciling their
reactions and and their whole world view
with those who are clinging to photos of
the now late supreme leader in the
streets. Exactly. I don't know how these
two sides are going to reconcile. If you
had to estimate, Farnaz, how big would
you describe both of those camps as? The
supporters, the mourners, versus the
dissidents, the opponents, those
celebrating his death.
I would say that the overwhelming
majority of the population in Iran are
opponents of the regime, about 80% and
the core supporters are about 20%.
And I think we can sort of draw this
conclusion from voting patterns. In the
past couple of years when there's been
presidential elections or parliamentary
elections, Iranians who are hardcore
believers of the regime have gone to
polls around 20% has been 20% of the
population. Got it. So, you're
extrapolating from that, which seems
quite reasonable. Right. We can, I
think, draw from that and also like in
January, literally every small and big
town all over Iran saw protests against
the government, including the religious
sort of strongholds of the government
where there were lots of people out
calling for the end of this Islamic
regime.
If we look at the demographics of the
protesters who were killed in January,
they're from all ethnic groups, from a
large geographic area in Iran and
different socioeconomic backgrounds.
Well, because his death is so fresh and
the reactions as you are describing them
are so different, let's talk about this
man who is inspiring such profound
reactions,
Khamenei, and why he inspires such
strong reactions.
Mr. Khamenei is the second supreme
leader of Iran. The first was founding
supreme leader Ayatollah Ruhollah
Khomeini. He came to power in 1979
after the Islamic revolution that
toppled the monarchy. 12 days ago, the
Ayatollah was operated on in an attempt
to stem intestinal bleeding. Early
yesterday, he suffered a heart attack.
He whispered Muslim prayers and died.
Ayatollah Khomeini, less than a day
after the Ayatollah's death in a Tehran
hospital. 49-year-old Ali Khamenei was
today chosen Khomeini's religious
successor by Iran's Council of Senior
Clerics.
It is widely expected that Mr. Khamenei
succeeded him in 1989.
Ayatollah Khomeini unleashed
anti-Western passions throughout the
Islamic world. Today, there were thinly
veiled hopes that his successors would
be less effective, if not more friendly.
And it is said that while the first
supreme leader led a revolution, Mr.
Khamenei led a state.
He really is the ruler who made sure
that the Islamic Republic went from a
revolutionary idea into a state that
entrenched power.
The Islamic Republic of Iran that we
know today, that has influence over
proxy militant groups and, you know, has
and military power was all the vision of
Mr. Khamenei. Mhm. Not only was he the
religious leader of Shiites around the
world, but his Iran would also be this
country that led anti-imperialism,
anti-Americanism,
anti-Israelism. Exactly. [music]
In one of his notorious quotes, he said,
"The reason Hamas now has rockets and
can attack Israel is because of us. We
enabled them to go from rocks and arrows
to missiles and guns with our training
and with our funding." And of course,
……（中部抽样）……
the thing that he is known for is his
For a few days, it looked like the start
Students on the campus of Tehran
social reform.
Mr. Khamenei had absolute power.
calls for reform. Same team should crush
or army, but a militia called the Basij,
revolution. Sidelining political
won't allow us to say what we want.
police attacking protesters from the
for brutal and lethal crackdowns on
recent images coming out of Iran. The
the 8th of January hoping to prevent
Including the recent wave in January
shoot-to-kill order. That we think
security forces to open fire on unarmed
result, over 3 days, a massacre
tolerate dissent and wanted to suppress
that more than 6,000 people were killed
protests, and they warn that number
And yet despite the supreme leader's
being so repressive, what we know, we've
that behind the scenes the regime is
United States and Israel,
state-sponsored terrorism, especially
enough is enough. They start unleashing
which would seem to make the regime very
precarious. But over the past couple of
leader was taken out with relative ease,
that careful or cautious. This was a
Nobody thought that they would find Mr.
compound during a time where US military
all around Iran. But at the end, he was
next door to him was a high-profile
military commands strategizing for the
so accessible to these attacks that,
were coming? Well, I think that it's
complacent, that they got a little
that strikes would happen in the middle
a work day where lots of children were
they thought that they had a window to
they thought might be imminent in the
miscalculated greatly. Fascinating. And
that Mr. Khamenei had refused to leave
indicated to people around him that if
starts, he would rather become a martyr.
would be better protected if he was seen
not afraid, whereas if he would have the
get captured or if his regime would be
by him to have the kind of ending that
which may be Iranian propaganda after
truth. On the subject of the regime's
of its leaders did the US and Israel
familiar with Iran's government, how big
It represents a massive blow to the
Putting Mr. Khamenei aside, they killed
Revolutionary Guards, the defense
officials, but Mr. Khamenei had planned
instructed everyone in leadership roles
they planned for the idea that three of
end up being killed in what ended up
would still be someone to succeed that
moment, I mean, we're talking to you
state of that succession in the Iranian
to project a sense of control
successor for the supreme leader.
Okay, well, that's the projection of a
in control of Iran and how do we know?
regime is still in control of Iran.
They are still in control of security on
are all over the capital. They've set up
Interesting.
military ability to retaliate and
Still launching a barrage of ballistic
are attacking Israel and they are firing
countries in the Persian Gulf.
extent that the people who Khomeini
this attack are still the ones doing the
they're firing the missiles, they're
They wanted to make sure that there's no
seeing any evidence of a power vacuum.
I mean, the reason that matters so much,
has been so explicit about his goal
the people of Iran to anticipate a power
regime.
have said that they want this regime
But right now, I think the priority for
bombs and to make sure that their
they're scrambling to find food and
seen yet a massive domestic uprising,
what's possible on day two.
one and they're still continuing to
to figure out what's going to happen in
talk about what it might look like
it would take for it to be toppled by
We'll be right back.
much earlier in this conversation, 80%.
the regime and could be ready to help
bombardment
So, let's talk about that possibility.
take for the opposition in Iran to
try to do what President Trump is
[clears throat] of them have long wanted
For the Iranian people inside Iran to be
would lay a central role in toppling the
planning and some sort of unity from
and outside the country and also a sense
and its means of crackdown and killing
disassembled.
January and they're on armed, they risk
again.
that the US and Israel in the targets
struck are trying to assist
the tools of oppression that you just
We do. I think the difference in this
war with Israel is that the targets have
and nuclear sites to structures and
that the government used to oppress and
attacked. And this is a court that's
prosecuted political cases and
broadcasting, which is a tool of
And they also went after two military
Guards and their underlings, Basij, the
see shooting and killing and beating
bases. So, there there is some evidence
it certainly seems that the goal of the
is to facilitate regime change on the
to pass, of course.
any kind of a revolution here,
regime that the US, that Israel might
who could, in theory,
loyalists, potentially be acceptable to
that the US and Israel and its leaders
Basically,
Venezuela after it arrested Nicolás
It's interesting you bring up Venezuela
that one of the conversations they're
about planning amongst themselves is the
Iran, referring to Venezuela's vice
And some of the names that have come up
the Revolutionary Guards who are sort of
who maybe would be open to a change of
Larijani, the head of the National
running the country right now. General
Revolutionary Guards commander, who's
role in commanding the war now. He's
I've also heard the name of former
of a moderate cleric, but he's sort of
Mr. Khamenei. So, these are some of the
here that for that 80% who want
and dissidents no figure that is
regime is going to be acceptable.
was part of a system and had a role in
repressions that have been part and
this government for 47 years. Right.
that he doesn't want to risk instability
with someone from that system that would
Right.
leaders and that he's heard that there
think he's kind of signaling to the
character who is willing to give me what
that I want on nuclear and military and
back him, at least I'll engage and
leader. That will be detrimental to the
the Iranian people.
change and so, President Trump is going
most to him. Right. Changing the regime
in conflict.
hugely disappointing to many people in
know, President Trump for all the
the 80% that are celebrating the events
figure who has helped their aspirations
that could quickly change and they may
with the successors of Mr. Khamenei.
I wonder if the events of the past few
more or less guarantees
same, even if it's an insider from the
by that I really mean it's hard to
proxies and state-sponsored terror that
power for the simple reason that
his own death. It
……（接近结尾）……
to hope for
and to
dream of for Iran in this moment of such
extraordinary flux
and fear, but also possibility.
Um
I'm Iranian-American.
And on Friday,
I thought that the possibility of ever
visiting Iran, of visiting my father's
graveside, or seeing my elderly
relatives was a distant dream.
Today,
I have hope.
Of returning? Of returning. A pretty
modest goal.
You know, that's what a lot of Iranians
who've been exiled and who can't go back
say. They say that it's pretty bare
minimum to want to see your relatives
and visit your home country.
And it's a right that has been robbed
from many people.
And I I think
many Iranians the world over have a
glimmer of hope.
Well, let me ask about a perhaps less
modest set of possibilities. I'm I'm
thinking about the people
who were are shots
on Saturday. I mean,
what do they dare to think about beyond
just visiting relatives back in Iran?
They dare to dream of a free Iran.
Where political prisoners are free,
where young people who take to the
streets to demand for a better living
are not shot and killed,
and people are not struggling to make
ends meet because it's a resource-rich
country,
where parents are not mourning their
children.
people taking to the streets and
chanting [music] freedom, freedom in
reaction to Mr. Soleimani's killing,
it may sound to an American or Western
audience that [music] this is a modest
aspiration, but I think for the Iranian
people who have sort of long aspired and
worked toward having a free,
this is a big [music] dream.
And as a reporter who's covered Iran for
three decades,
I never thought that I would be writing
this news or, you know, reporting this.
of the New York Times today with the
headline
and thought, uh, wow.
This is a This is a headline on a story
I never thought I would write
Well, Farnaz,
thank you very much. We really
appreciate it. Thank you for having me,
Michael.
Times,
President Trump said that the American
military [music]
assault against Iran could last up to
four to 5 weeks.
When pressed on his plan for who should
lead Iran's government, the president
inconsistent visions.
One scenario, he said, was that the
United States identified a cooperative
leader from inside the regime.
Another scenario, he said, was that
Iran's elite military forces would
simply lay down their weapons and
surrender to the people of Iran.
Here's what else you need
changed by statute. The Constitution
says, "No declaration of war without
Congress." The president has called this
war [music] against Iran. On Sunday,
congressional Democrats questioned the
legality of President Trump's military
strikes against Iran, [music]
saying that it was a clear-cut case
where he needed Congress's approval but
One of those Democrats, Senator Tim
Kaine of Virginia,
end the use of American military forces
in Iran. [music] The president not only
did not come to Congress to seek a
debate or vote, he [music] acted without
even notification to the vast majority
of us. This is an illegal war. I have
And
as markets opened on Sunday night, oil
prices [music] rose 10%
highlighting the economic risks of the
conflict in Iran.
The US-Israeli [music] attacks on Iran
could severely restrict oil and gas
supplies around the world. Even if the
disruption is brief,
more expensive around the world.
Chung, Mary Wilson, and Claire Tennis
Getter.
It was edited by Liz O'Brien [music] and
Paige Cowett.
Contains music by Alicia Etoo and Dan
Powell.
Our theme [music] music is by Jim
Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.
The episode was engineered by Chris
Wood.
I'm Michael Barbaro.
See you tomorrow.