TITLE: The CEO Who Lost 80% of His Company's Value (And Built It Back): Vlad Tenev
CHANNEL: The Knowledge Project Podcast
DURATION_S: 6579  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-03T11:00:02+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0jbbinhLAlw
SHA256: 23f38088cccd046eb2aa0022ae9c04903bb9e8b600eac39eb69cd180fae0b1c0

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [3%] wide margin. We give everyone a 3% match
  [2022] actually 2022 was harder. What happened?
  [5%] they went to, you know, four or 5%. And
  [2020] Hood in the year 2020 leading up to the
  [2021] about a $ 32 billion valuation in 2021
  [90%] 90% of companies are in phase one. 90%
  [100000] years it'll get to 100,000 pages. And
  [1991] and the year he left was 1991. So we we
  [2000] and I think it got to 2,000. Um, so they
  [7%] because you can get your average 7%
  [80%] &gt;&gt; So we lost 80% plus of of our market
  [2019] of 2019 we had 700 people and something
  [1.5] &gt;&gt; You know, 1 second, 1.5 second load time
  [7.9] versus 7.9. Um,
  [50000] account. He's got, you know, $50,000 in
  [50%] Pay, businesses see up to 50% higher
  [97%] 97%.
  [100%] over 100%. So, we talk a lot about, you
  [1996] 1996, 1997, 5 years after I came,
  [1997] 1996, 1997, 5 years after I came,
  [1800%] in the world was 1,800% in one year. So
  [1987] of like the year I was born, 19 1987,
  [2007] risk of sounding like 2007 here, pull

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
I want to come to GameStop for a moment.
You need billions in collateral. You
make a decision to restrict the trading.
How did you make that decision?
precedent.
in bed with hedge funds.
a boring truth.
Money when you watched it?
see the clips that I was in.
think what most companies suffer from is
So, take me back to the moment your
phone rings, you need billions in
collateral, maybe set the scene for us,
and you make a decision to restrict the
trading. How did you make that decision?
time. You know, sometimes you talk to um
I I've heard a lot from people that have
many children uh including myself. I
have more than one. It's like uh uh my
wife says, you know, it's very the
pregnancy and the child birth very very
painful, but for some reason I don't
remember it. And then that sort of like
uh evolutionarily g gives you the signal
that you should do it again. Um, and I
think we're doing a Yeah, I think um I
was at this IPO round table at the SEC
uh about making the IPOs great again and
with Rob with Robin Hood Ventures were
taking that fund public. So, we're doing
another IPO and I joked that um yeah,
it's kind of like that the IPO process.
I remember being painful and I didn't
like it, but I don't really exactly
remember why and now I kind of want to
do it again. Um
but yeah, that's a big aside that has
nothing to do with GameStop. Um other
than yeah, that that was a very
challenging time. It was towards the end
of COVID and I felt like everyone was
going a little bit crazy. They'd been
cooped up at home for about a year
without much humanto human interaction.
I think from a crisis management
standpoint, it was very difficult to
deal with because we're doing these like
conference video calls with all these
different stakeholders. The regulators
weren't in office and so um yeah,
basically what happened was we got this
like automated file in the middle of the
night and it had big numbers on it,
right? It it had big numbers that kept
changing and uh it was a situation which
had no precedent and um you know we we
had to make a tough call to
uh put GameStop and a bunch of other
companies on position closing only which
basically meant
uh you couldn't open up new positions
take on more risk uh for a period of
about one day. So, wasn't even that
long. But because there was this
narrative that had taken over social
media, this like viral narrative that it
was the the retail investors taking down
the hedge funds and we were kind of the
tool. um people wanted to put it was
like a good versus evil thing and and I
think what was just um
what would have at any other time for
any other stock been kind of an
innocuous riskmanagement decision to
control our internal risk turned into
Robin Hood's on the side of the hedge
funds colluding against the the retail
investor and I think the fact that the
name of the company was Robin Hood made
this like a juicy false narrative to uh
that that continued to go viral. So, I
remember in the beginning of the in the
middle of the night when I woke up, my
phone was basically unusable
because it was like those videos you see
of what happens if a Kardashian turns
off uh do not disturb on their phone. It
just is a constant buzzing thing. Um, so
that that was that was my morning. I was
like, the phone is completely unusable.
I can't even get on a Zoom call because
there's just random people calling me uh
telling me to to turn it back on, you
know. Uh just to give people context a
little bit um if they're unfamiliar with
the situation. The narrative that came
out was you were in bed with the hedge
funds because the hedge funds were
trying to close their short positions on
a stock that was basically going
parabolic,
situation. I've never seen it before
anyway. I I can't. But you also
story that I don't think many people
know is you had given GameStop shares to
people when they signed up for Robin
Hood, didn't you? Like
make the argument that we kind of
started the whole thing. you know, every
everyone if if you were joining Robin
Hood in the year 2020 leading up to the
whole GameStop thing, uh which by the
way, a lot of people joined Robin Hood
that year, GameStop was one of the
collection of free free stocks that was
given to customers.
just came in, get got their free
GameStop share, and maybe they weren't
engaged that much, but then when they
saw GameStop going up, suddenly those
shares were were worth a lot of money.
What's one thing the world still gets
wrong about that time?
that Robin Hood colluded with hedge
funds to shut down trading. There was
also another false narrative that I
think is funnier. I uh but yeah, Sequoia
had to refute this. Someone put on the
internet that uh the White House
actually called uh Sequoia Capital, one
of our venture capital investors, and
got them to pressure us to shut down
GameStop. So, um yeah, that that was a
particularly funny one. But if you look
on Reddit, that had like thousands of
reposts. Um,
so yeah, I think that I mean we don't
really have any business with with hedge
funds. So the the idea that somehow a
hedge fund would collude to have us shut
down trading of a of a stock um I mean
always seems silly to me, but I think
what we learned is
a juicy falsehood is more powerful than
kind of a a boring truth.
facts. It's like so weird.
whatsoever. It doesn't matter how crazy
or false it is, facts do not tend to
refute that. You see this in politics
all the time, right? Once somebody tells
a story and the mind share goes to that
story, no amount of evidence or data
will ever overturn that story and and
they'll believe it for like 20 years.
that though is you got to talk to Mark
Zuckerberg and Daniel Ek. I'm curious
about like what you learned during that
period of time um from those two. I
think Daniel had talked to you about
like going through a PR crisis or
Daniel at that point, but I did call him
when he was um
dealing with his Joe Rogan thing.
of getting cancelled and uh I mean
Spotify was getting immense pressure
from both sides, right? Do they
deplatform Joe Rogan or
want Joe Rogan to be deplatformed? Um so
that that was probably I mean Daniel's
I'm sure dealt with his share of of uh
crises, but that was probably his
GameStop moment. So yeah, I called him
to pay it forward to to offer whatever
support uh I could have and and
hopefully that was helpful to him, but
he's actually um yeah, probably wiser
and uh and better than me in these
things. So I don't know if he needed it.
But yeah, at that time Mark Zuckerberg
called me and Elon Musk called me, Mark
Beni off called me and uh a nice
positive side effect was these people
probably wouldn't have cared about
little Robin Hood at at the time and
suddenly I think uh I got to talk with
these business magnates that have uh
have built massive companies and they're
giving me their perspective on the whole
situation. One of the things that I
loved that you did during that period of
time was you went on a clubhouse with
Elon. I don't know if you regret that
now. Um,
the best uh media appearance of the week
for sure. Not saying much because I I
had some bad ones, but
Money when you watched it?
see the clips that I was in. And
Um,
well, I did see the parts that I was in,
which was about six minutes. Um,
uh, and some of the rest. Uh, I I
actually thought, you know, I know it
didn't do very well, but, uh, I found it
more or less entertaining.
My favorite part, which maybe wouldn't
uh wouldn't be other people's favorite
part or or maybe it would for for for
some ladies there, was that my character
um was played by a very good-looking
actor, Sebastian Stan, which, you know,
I wasn't displeased about. Um I would
have thought Adam Driver would also be
……（中部抽样）……
good, but um Sebastian Stan maybe a
math person on the cover of GQ, I think.
short period of time, but once we
tailwinds for the business during COVID
and when that happens, actually
happened, it was obvious to the market
Um, so yeah, all of these things start
really just, uh, want to win. And so I
like uh not do anything and and turn
environment where you see high rates and
if you're a gold member for for making
you know, we become a business that has
a lot of time thinking about how to fix
in the next year end of 2020
engineering systems were strained we
the the inputs that led to that
it's like, not to use another
getting to the same place. And in in
values I mentioned earlier high
get easier if you do them multiple times
see how it goes and then you realize
had these wellness days where entire
entire org is taking a day off? Doesn't
and uh
distractions, just a clean notepad that
Most things worth having in life reward
approach the rest of your life with
to stretch and to do in one year what
you think about what that incentivizes,
bar, but you can't use that as an excuse
yeah, I mean, I think that if if I think
people than a large team of of mediocre
weeks and you're like, "Oh, this isn't
person to to to continue. Um
suffer from is
yeah. Yeah. Perhaps one thing that's
top tech universities
boomers very well. you had Erade coming
them. You know, I I always like to have
didn't have any career experience. I
then everyone can sort of like hear
spent some time thinking over this
as quickly as possible. And that
strong. So usually if things aren't
do you sort of like get hands off?
of this year. So, uh towards the end of
at the events and I introduce the
what the purpose is. I think the events
the details of the business like I am,
into that foundation. You you you tell a
and benefits like he he didn't come out
think about the Apple events at all. We
from first principles make this event as
had bake offs where, you know, they
going on.
internal operations,
platform. And traditionally that's been
product velocity and and development.
tool recently and and I think the
actually being fully self-s served by by
percentage of the software engineering
the next frontier where we're going to
personalized. So, so I think that's
yeah, because it's not just, of course,
than stages I should say.
most companies aren't using AI for
yesterday from Chase Bank. Okay. So, you
subscription fee. Um, so that involves
know, vendor is not going to be able to
generally have good systems hygiene.
most visible use case of it in Robin
day and it's just it's it's basically
conversions. That's not a rounding
matters as much as the product. Upgrade
land on the perfect name only to find
investors and customers that you're
we train the models and and what the
yeah. And basically the company that I
which I didn't think it would do so so
solving a single IMO problem. Uh yeah.
solving, like be better at making
stay at people's houses and work with
and um
And the goal is to um ladder that up to
different about the model itself?
computer code.
it generates some lemmas and facts that
fundamental techniques tend to overlap.
makes sense? Yeah, I mean I think that
years it'll get to 100,000 pages. And
fundamentals of um unification which has
think it's going to be fairly like
mathematicians that are using it to ask
the time to go deep on every single
prediction market, we had a prediction
advantages for sure. I would say chat
we were the harmonic team was excited
work harder and get ahead.
quickly the narrative can shift. Um,
is very very easy, right? So no business
training. It's like going to the gym for
you see all of these companies who are
really like it? And and of the majority
companies and and you get an inadvertent
there. And so, uh, I'm trying to figure
in right here about tokenization and how
those different types of assets where I
okay, uh, maybe I don't want to take on
right now. So I can't talk in much
there and if we can streamline
commercial properties. So, I think that
buy the real estate and then sort of
have an established framework that is
open to using these vehicles to provide
exposure. So you're buying access to a
has evolved tokenization will be the
So for example for privates
capital to to run your business. I think
So I I think those are the things and I
like Stripe where your uh you know
growth of the business and you can kind
is if you're a company that hasn't done
best outcome because in any other
a transition period and not not all
like, well, why why are the derivatives
not a liquid market these days. And if
privates is we we always would
Open AI in SpaceX. I wanted to claim
love the model and how uh they think
generally, we got a skeptical reception
going on national television and talking
Uh and I think also we could make it
across the board. So, um I I think we
years? There's all these things we could
outside the US plugged in as well and
care so much about Robin Hood Ventures,
generation into the young. And I think
you came from a communist country. I
it. So anyway the the Berlin Wall fell
going to work out in in America, whether
there at the right time. um or or
was like battery powered and you know
came to the US and one thing that
Bulgaria had the unfortunate distinction
had uh the bank statements for my
was just full of copper pots and pans.
long time it was just a gradual decline
exported to to everyone else and and
how do we get more people invested in
you know, I'm a I'm a I'm a proponent of
investments, real estate, private
mean not not just with the DATs but
going to be singular. nobody else is
not, uh,
We offered equities trading. At the very
lending based revenue but we like to
other ways, but generally using using
no, we're doing four computers. or
one card, and for my groceries, I use
but I also know that if I don't want to
cheaper somewhere else. But they do a
joining. It's like credit card companies
Uh, can they not? because it's a
of of the card program itself are
advantage because we were able to build
run upstairs cuz they're like fat and
transaction fee. Like how is that from
also use the brokerage product. And of
our other product lines benefit. And I
close the gap between the rebates we get
both. We can be your secondary account
……（接近结尾）……
that right and so they they sort of like
became structurally reliant on it. Um,
and uh, you know, it how do you how do
you adapt if you have trillions of
dollars in checking that you're used to
paying to to earning 5% on and you
suddenly are talking about giving the
majority of that back to the customer
and and taking no profit. Um, you know,
you you do that very very quickly and
your earnings
go down, profitability goes down. if
you're public, you know, that that could
have an impact on the stock price and
suddenly it becomes a safety and
soundness concern.
here this morning. I was like, I wonder
if the the
ultimate endgame is like the mortgage
ties people to financial institutions in
a way uh because they can tie the
mortgage to other products. They can tie
it to your paychecks deposited. And then
I was thinking, well, Open Door wants to
enable like one-click buying of a house.
And if they were to integrate with Robin
Hood or somebody else or a financial
institution, you could literally enable
that on the spot. You could enable like,
oh, your mortgage is granted. It's
approved. Uh, and it seem it'd be like
seconds.
partnership with Sage Home Loans that
gives you 75 basis points off of uh the
national average
you have history, complete history
information, and you can use that with
AI, I would imagine, to actually
probably generate better predictive
outcomes than humans.
the mortgage business is very rate
dependent. So, um I don't think we
necessarily want to get into the
mortgage underwriting business or
holding mortgages, but we we want to get
we want to help people with all of their
financial needs. And I think for that
one, being a network and allowing
different banks to compete over who can
offer you the the best possible rate as
a consumer is is probably the road we're
going to keep going on. But ultimately,
isn't doesn't that come back full circle
a bit to the tokenization? Uh so like
you might pull those mortgages uh at the
risk of sounding like 2007 here, pull
those mortgages and allow people to
retail investors to partake in those
mortgages. No, I haven't thought deeply
about
whether we would securitize mortgages.
Um
my feeling is that
I mean at at at the end of the day um we
just want we'll just enable what offers
customers the you know lowest cost
whether it whether tokenization enables
that or you know you can connect
directly to a network of banks that can
compete over your mortgage traditionally
I think remains to be seen. Um, you you
could argue actually tokenization at
first would have a disadvantage because
the banks won't be tokenizing and so you
probably have to meet them where they
are and give them the the information in
ways that they can support. But yeah,
over time that's likely to shift uh if
if they they they tend to be lagards of
of technology. So if you know 5 to 10
years they're doing mortgage mortgage
originations and onchain then um you can
imagine it it being the the primary
market for that.
same question which is what is success
for you? For me personally,
I think success is
um
creating dramatically more value for the
world than you create for yourself. So
um yeah, I I think I would feel good if
the aggregate impact
on the rest of the world
and I think obviously it should be
positive. I I think it is is is much
bigger than what happens to me
personally. Um and I think that's what's
pushing me to, as you said, further
ownership. Uh make it so that everyone
has skin in the game. Um because I think
that if if if I can play a part in doing
that across privates, publiclix, all
post IPO and make it so that more people
own uh the great industries of of this
country will lead to
not just smarter and more well-off
individuals, but also a more stable and
and prosperous society. And I think
that's the that's a legacy that I would
I would get excited to tell my
grandchildren proudly uh about when
they're, you know, huddled around the
the fire on Christmas.
for taking the time today.