TITLE: Trump Seeks Xi Summit Delay Over Iran War | The China Show 3/17/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5669  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-17T06:23:13+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ijms_V84wME
SHA256: 9587c89d529780a1dde246fd90459180779d8b1bb25dc5935a78a3bfd3d12980

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2027] 2027. But yes, that that deeper push
  [2025] between 2025 and 2027.
  [2%] but you are up more than 2% this
  [2026] &gt;&gt; Yes, in 2026 our goal is to achieve 1
  [1%] called higher now. 410 of 1% on the Hen
  [2023] 2023 rescue and more recently those
  [3%] is a window to to buy into 3% on
  [10%] on operating margin could be just 10%
  [4%] is up more than 4% as we get into
  [2049] vanish by 2049. That's due to rapid
  [5%] a.5%.
  [15%] our um you know gross margin 14 to 15%
  [4.2%] inflation would peak at 4.2%. Now
  [2.6%] well 2.6%
  [65%] think they'll hold 65% so it's 2/3
  [608961] bottom of your screen there. So 608961,
  [1.8] through that $ 1.8 trillion market.
  [8%] puts that at about 8% as these advances
  [2028] rise to over $74 billion by 2028. A so
  [2000] like 2,000 to 4,000 for [music] one
  [4000] like 2,000 to 4,000 for [music] one
  [30%] projects that more than 30% of urban
  [40%] 30 to 40% of the job could have been
  [4.4%] PopMart there we go 4.4% 4% leaning
  [28%] six uh if not 28% at one point of course
  [4.56%] but remember 4.56% is the three-year
  [2022] hiking cycle back in 2022. So the
  [1.3%] large extent. 1.3% to the upside should
  [20%] are about 20% lower than this time of
  [2017] China was 2017. He sent his secretary of
  [1.0] 1.0 uh tattooed in his in his in his
  [596000] profitability delivered 596,000
  [850000] hope to achieve that about 850,000
  [100000] in China and the rest of 100,000 150,000
  [150000] in China and the rest of 100,000 150,000
  [51%] JV we already got the 51%
  [14.5%] 14.5%.
  [6%] is up 6% as we speak and by my
  [2.2%] 2% the gauge 2.2% for the IT index. So,
  [2.2] pointing out right 2.2 2% to the upside.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
It's 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen,
and here in Hong Kong. You're watching
the China Show. I'm Annabelle Drooers
with David and Glaze.
the open of markets in greater China.
Let's get to your top stories today.
President Trump is seeking to delay his
meeting with President Xi Jinping,
saying he needs to stay in Washington to
oversee the war in Iran.
oil prices stabilizing as the US calls
on allies to help reopen the Strait of
Hummus. The [music] region's chip stocks
getting a boost from Nvidia's trillion
dollar sales forecast.
straight rate hike as elevated energy
costs and supply chain disruptions
reignite inflation.
its sprawling AI ventures to focus on
making sure it's able to monetize its
big investments.
of things to [music]
get into uh when we look at markets
today. You have obviously two the two
major themes which is of course the
ongoing [music]
uh war in the Middle East and of course
that has now gone into the uh has now
directly affected in fact the upcoming
still potentially upcoming summit now uh
between the Americans and the Chinese
and our understanding is of course
President Trump has said that he has
requested a for that need to be pushed
back. Of course there are I guess other
things on his mind that he needs to
attend to. Uh the other thing of course
that markets are trying to digest as
well and could be the positive offset is
the NVIDIA story overnight. We know the
trillion dollar figure uh but it's also
around the product launches not just
from Nvidia but how it affects an entire
ecosystem uh into where we are in the
Asia Pacific.
huge sales projection of course $1
trillion in sales through the end of
2027. But yes, that that deeper push
that we're seeing into CPUs, uh, you
know, looking at at what kind of
semiconductors it can introduce as well
because it acquired the startup Grock.
Uh, so yeah, lots of different threads
there, but I think kind of going back to
that bigger macro macro picture really,
it does come back down to what we're
seeing in Iran in particular. and and
and and just to to finish off that point
as well, that delay that we've got to
the summit. I do think it's interesting
when you did actually have officials, US
and Chinese officials meeting in Paris
just to hash out the details, but we've
already got this delay. I do think
though, is it a delay that Beijing maybe
wants to see?
conversations on the weekend, you know,
hashing out the agenda, but also maybe
um a bit of a nudge. We'll see, of
course, whether or not that was of
course the intention and design. Now
just looking at that too when we look at
markets right so a couple of things uh
what we tend to see over the last two
weeks or so is you have periodic rallies
when oil is just up by this amount on
your screen. So you're getting the good
themes coming through through these
windows transitory windows when you have
oil somewhat behaving itself. Um so you
have the tech play coming through as
well 2.6%
uh to the upside. Uh let's please have a
look at where we are as far as the other
big stories are concerned. Right. We
talked about monetary policy inflation
and in the form of the RBA actually
right so majority
um of economists think they will hike
today it's not a small minority that
think they'll hold 65% so it's 2/3
probability in the rates markets so
either way someone is going to get
disappointed either way we'll likely see
some form of reaction here the dollar is
steading following declines we had on
Monday um equity markets let's have a
look that please Nick Cosby it's also
worth pointing out that the the tech
rally is more pronounced in Korea and in
Taiwan which is coming online. Uh
volumes are not where you would expect
them to be. Uh so really low conviction
when you look at the price rally today.
S&amp;P futures are in fact now done. We're
still trying to also figure out the
developments in the Middle East where
you have the UAE. Of course we
understand the airspace is still closed.
Um non exciting open uh by the looks of
futures right now. When you look at
China, it's the yield curve that you
want to pay attention to. The spread
between depends, right? 10 and 30 or in
this case, it's the one in 30, which is
effectively now steepest in several
months, in some cases in several years.
But yes, more on that in a moment.
back to our top stories. That is of
course what's happening with the US and
China, what's happening as well, the
latest in Iran. But we'll bring in our
chief North Asia correspondent, Steven
Angel, our politics editor as well,
Laura Davidson, joining us from Tokyo
this morning. But Steve, I think we can
get started with you because I mean
you've been saying for a while that you
thought maybe this might not actually go
ahead on the on the planned schedule at
least between the US and China. So what
exactly is happening here?
facts that we know. And the facts we
know right now obviously are that uh
Donald Trump is saying I think I have
other priorities right now and Scott
Besson is talking about the logistics do
not line up for a summit in Beijing uh
given the concerns of the war and also
just the the size and scope of such a
high-profile meeting in Beijing at the
end of this month on March 31st and into
April. Uh my opinion to a certain degree
has always been why would Beijing
welcome Donald Trump at this time to
Beijing to allow him to essentially bang
the drums of trying to get support for
this war which already you know the
Chinese foreign minister Wangi has
called totally unacceptable and they
have made a number of different comments
about um you know basically denigrating
the aims in this war in Iran. In fact,
Global Times dismissed uh Trump's call
for China's help uh with the straight of
Hormuz uh in paper in their paper
yesterday. Of course, this is a state
media as an attempt to spread the risk
of a war that Washington started and
can't finish. So, state media is saying
what a lot of people I assume in Beijing
are thinking right now. Now is not the
right time to have a summit between
these two gentlemen. So, they're going
to be pushing it off. M uh what specific
confirmation should we be expecting or
should we be watching whether or not to
actually put finality to this? I want to
say speculation because now I we know
one side has asked for it.
delay. I would imagine Beijing could
possibly respond when the day opens in
Beijing. Right now it's 9:07. Uh there
there will be a foreign ministry
briefing later in the afternoon. We
could get comments or we could get
silence. I'm not quite sure. Uh but
again, I think there's some narration
games going on. Scott Bessant again is
saying he rejected speculation that
Trump was threatening uh to delay this
trip to China to help reopen the street
uh of Hormuz. You know, that's not the
narrative that they want to push. Uh he
calls it a false narrative. So right now
it is simply in the hands they're trying
to the White House is trying to
basically convey that this is a
logistics problem. Um and we'll have to
see what Beijing Beijing I'm sure does
not want to have this summit happen with
the backdrop of the war.
connected the two. So my my question is
it it to your point right it's a
logistics issue. There are other things
that are occupying of course the white
house. Uh there was a narrative that
emerged yesterday which was this was
simply Donald Trump putting pressure on
the Chinese
in the Middle East when it comes to the
straight of moves. What's happened with
that view at this point in time?
responding to and that's what Scott
Bessant was responding to. Right. So
that's not the narrative that Donald
Trump or the White House uh you know are
is trying to convey right now. They're
……（中部抽样）……
trying to simply say it's not the right
deliverables be. Now again, I'm
though President Trump is still
hesitant to give support and and and
geopolitical as well as a economic
going on for weeks uh if not
headlines of attacks, missiles,
continuing to make life very difficult
really painful." um you know uh in in
to be in.
you know he he Trump acknowledged
gone as expected. You know, Trump at the
any sort of resolution to the conflict
well as our chief North Asia
Show.
that? But Steven Angel was just talking
That'll be an interesting conversation
watch [clears throat] as we move into
talking about Alibaba today?
title itself already signals that there
Alibaba employees would left. The
into the results? So we will definitely
week its own agentic AI tool for
for joining us. That was our China
one to watch just given they made that
the chip for space and data centers. So,
sort of next step, the sort of
help us explain that too. Let's get more
October from the DC edition of GTC, it
for its systems further into the decade
stronghold, but they see value in going
Yeah. Uh there we go. About 6 minutes 30
Tuesday session. Uh just a couple of
at the Chinese version of things, uh CSI
We'll have the co-president joining us
potential summit a summit that's taking
essentially asked China to to delay that
straight of Hormuz even though overnight
very ambitious sales targets uh over the
morning. They're planning a major revamp
Hong is really interesting because uh
Uh Leap Motor, of course you mentioned
between the war in Iran and the Middle
be pushed back given other priorities
there. Now, does that affect relations,
do you think that affects the trajectory
that is one of the biggest shifts taking
precision components that US
to be clear and what signs are you
the last 12 to 18 months is that
other parts of the world. And we think
shipped and assembled anywhere in the
making to I guess decouple its China
That said, its production base is
completion of building out that
actually an embodiment of that. And so
of an asset over time because the
China for China, establish a base
uh that is an example of this is
discussions earlier today. But we think
This is Bloomberug.
getting a lot more premium being built
that of course has been really attracted
our Asia credit reporter Trista Shinil
hold over 48 billion for this asset
interesting is that wealthy client this
to react fast to play it safe to redeem
key message they want to deliver is
you don't want to get into as well when
Smart Securities with the AT group
expands [music] its partnership with
coming up with Leap Motor in the next
It's an AI generated video based on a
duns of IP infringement [music] after
the future
lost right away. If you're thinking
targeted specifically at what is driving
for profit, not an uncontrollable event.
Taiwan and some server names there.
They're also introducing semiconductors
interesting because when we tie together
of course that's a secret in the
hour. Want to watch plenty more ahead.
to pass through the straight of Humus
reasonable prices of course are the
this rush too and demand is pushing
somewhat gotten used to risk premiums
We're considering this flat given
of economists do think of course there
was, you know, well before things kicked
be reversing everything as of the close
markets today and and uh lots of
private equity firms and there is also
much uh during the last few days, we're
basically a big sort of catalyst forming
tasks obviously that would mean a huge
equities, the price is doing this 1 and
in Hong Kong with us to talk us through
help, you know, safe passage in the
Jameson and Greer talked about uh this
and he asks she are you going to support
no-win situation.
they're talking and they're trying to
plan of an idea, right? So yes, they're
planned summit.
months leading up to it to build in
that scenario without the deliverables
things relevant to obviously given the
just posted its first annual profit on
earnings out and actually posting their
Wu Michael good morning from Hong Kong
set quite an ambitious sales target.
year ever you know a four fourear
from you across most of those metrics.
three regions which will launch vehicles
to Stalantis in turn? Where's the
services. So that's been very uh well
of Europe? Michael.
relationship between Beijing and
formed between Chinese companies and
outside our control. So all we have to
this conversation before around price
chips, how are you feeling that
degrees as a part of the whole eco
are many links and aspects of the
platforms of cars. Um we have no
how much are you looking to acquire uh
issues around raw materials what's the
concerned um you know for say one
high for the business last year at
we want to reward the consumers
you know net income positive but in 26
the co-president there of Ja Jang Leap
streaming, news, interviews, [music] and
rather in Korea and Taiwan are very much
that's just way of saying watch the
underneath the hoods and the lack of
optimism around uh the Nvidia GTC event,
So [snorts] you're getting Samsung and
our way closer to earnings in the next
uh stress on the current account in the
Philippines in the next few hours or so.
Iran have been affected. Helium
South Korean finance ministry which says
senior industry analyst out of Bloomberg
that you can sort of imagine. So, you
this play out in some parts of the
the next few weeks and maybe even
forefront of this and we've seen several
from from the vending machines too. So I
disentangle when you're trying to get an
container rates because of of those
in the first couple of months of the
Masahiro, let's bring you in here
do you think the Korean names are
the cost hike uh could be you know
quite large.
story uh from Nvidia and uh actually uh
demand will increase going forward. mod.
going forward.
uh it was a bit lagging behind but uh I
out of Bloomberg Intelligence Alice
All right. So, it's actually a really
sort of I guess an early gauge of of how
most think they will uh there's a
Uh in February when the RBA released its
uh would deliver a backto-back uh hike
……（接近结尾）……
elsewhere in the region in the case of
the Philippines. When you look at it
from the perspective of buyers who are
having to use a currency that is near
the weakest on record, buying oil that
is above a 100 bucks, you effectively
get a price that is near records anyway.
And we're getting u from the deputy
governor of the central bank speaking
right now that they are talking and
looking at the spillover effects of oil
prices. We did get the governor
yesterday saying that they were actually
intervening in the markets when the peso
was nearing that 60 handle.
look.
Let's take a look at the impact of the
Iran war because it's also as you said
looming large over the invest summit or
Philippine summit that opens today in
Manila. Our insight anchor Hinder Armin
is at the event and joins us now. So
Haz, this is going to be of course I
would say pretty much factoring into
every conversation you're going to be
having on the ground today.
as much as we're keeping an eye on the
RBA, we're also keeping an eye on a BSP.
As Dave mentioned, we had the BSB
intervening, propping up the currency as
it headed towards that, you know,
psychological level of 60 per US dollar.
The thing is some expecting the currency
to still breach 60 if oil prices
continue to hover at $100 a barrel.
Remember that we heard from the BSB
governor himself saying that if oil does
reach 100 and stays there, it could
prompt a tightening policy. Uh that is
pivotal and that is what we're watching
for. The other thing about the Iran war
is the implications on remittances. We
have millions of Filipinos working in
the Middle East, the likes of the UAE uh
as well as Saudi Arabia and Dubai. They
send home 600 million pesos every year.
That is about 8 to 10% of GDP, 25%
of inflows, crucial for households in
the country, crucial for consumption,
crucial for growth. So those are the
factors that we're watching out for. So
in our conversations today, we'll be
asking the questions on, you know,
measures that could mitigate the impact
from high oil prices that could help uh
the Philippines revive its economy.
We'll be speaking to, of course, the
finance uh secretary of the country. Uh
Frederick go, this is his first
interview since he took over that
position back in October. We'll ask him
whether or not the BSB needs to be even
more aggressive in uh protecting the
currency. Might there be an offcycle
meeting that could help prop up the
currency? We're also speaking to the
largest conglomerate here in the
country. We're talking about SM
Investments, the vice chair, Tessy
Coson. Well, joining us. Of course, this
is a company which a lot of interest
including in retail, in banking, in
property. We'll ask her if her business
are getting impacted uh by the Iran war.
and we'll be speaking to the boss of the
uh Philippine stock exchange to get his
take on how he can prevent that foreign
outflows which we have been seeing uh
for a very long time. Plenty more ahead
of course coming up in our meaningful
conversations hopefully on Insight for
the next two hours Dave.
you so much. We'll be back with Haz in a
couple of minutes here. A look at
markets across the region. Uh we'll take
a short break. This is Bloomberg.
Right. Rally across Chinese tech names.
Alibaba leading some of the gains right
now. 3% to the upside. Plus the other
bigger movers across your screens. Mtoan
is also catching quite a strong bid.
Tech stocks in focus, chip stocks too
across the region, including those uh in
South Korea on the back of the Nvidia
story that tailwinds we're feeling from
that part of the world. On top of this,
we're counting down to a great decision.
decisions, but the RBA is coming up
ahead of the Fed, the ECB, the the BOJ.
I mean there's a lot more but but really
the big watch here is going to be how
exactly policy [music] makers are
thinking about the possible
stagflationary impact of high energy
prices. Most economists that we've
surveyed are expecting a [music] hike uh
from the RBA. So we get that decision in
just over half an hour from now. But
that's it for the China show insight
with Hass Linda [music] Arm is next.
Stay with us.