2025-08-20_达利欧中文播客首秀_ 股债撕裂, 给中国朋友的10条理财法则_68a5143f42cc2798e76cb2bc_原文
2026年07月02日 14:09
发言人   00:04
The volatility of these things is financially damaging to most people because they tend to jump on investments that are hot, and that means closer to their tops. That's why many now they think about different buckets. One is safe investment and the other more riskier investment.
发言人   00:25
Yes, gambling. But I want to emphasize, you're going to the poker table with a lot of smart people who put billions of dollars or Simon reman b to play that game well. So start IT by experimenting in amounts that are tolerable so you can experience.
发言人   00:50
I don't make IT a decision of whether the U. S. Stock market is high. I would say maybe you keep half local, but in a diversified portfolio.
发言人   01:06
But I also did for my children, who now adults and my grandchildren is every birthday I give them a gold going. Now, I found is it's very satisfying to them because I see IT accumulate where the toys are. The junk that I would give them would all disappear.
发言人   01:34
听众朋友们大家好，欢迎收听先生，我是力维。这两天A股和投资的话题火热，而债市则连续下跌。有投顾已经抛出这样一个灵魂拷问，手里的债基该换股基了吗？最近达利欧也频频出现在我们的视野里，一是因为他发布了一本新书国家为什么会破产。而到了上周末，桥水清空中概股的新闻又引发不少关注。昨晚还有朋友问，桥水卖卖光了所有中国股票吗？其实，美国披露了13F并不反映在A股和港股的持仓，只看再来市场。
发言人   02:07
桥水在国内发行的基金在去年规模突破400亿后，算上一年多以来的涨幅，管理规模现在应该已经在600亿元上下，几乎已经占到桥水全球管理总额的10分之1。跟踪达利欧已经有小十年，最近借新书发布的契机，我与他做了一轮对话，先是聊他的新书和相关争议，而后也从我们个人视角出发，详谈了他给中国朋友的投资建议，这也是他第一次做客国内播客畅聊投资。在我的记忆里，W很少公开具体的谈投资或相关建议，针对国内情况谈的就更少。但现在我们国内投资者面对一个非常特别的环境，一方面股市火热，但是要稳健拿到还不错的回报不是那么容易。有朋友坦言，三年算下来，其实还没赚多少钱，而过去两年让许多朋友赚了不少的债基。昨天看到已经有朋友写诗承债基，万户泪连连。在当前的低利率环境下，市场大幅波动对我们是好是坏？稳健回报要如何拿？
发言人   03:13
市场好的时候要不要做资产类别和地区分散？达利欧看衰美债和美元，是不是也看空美股？话不多说，下面就进入我们的对话。
发言人   03:27
Welcome rate I fix this might be the first time you speak inform podcast to our chinese audience. I think so great to have you. So first of china right now is in a low interest rate environment.
发言人   03:40
Typically, it's very hard to get decent return. We actually wrote AA cover story early. I found bridge waters, china, all weather found its performance has been very good over the past few years, I think more than ten percent almost each year.
发言人   03:57
And aimed market volatility here in china draw down is really far and feel in between. Can you help us understand how that kind of performance can be achieved under low interest rate environment? Yes, i'm glad US.
发言人   04:13
A bridge water's fund over the last six years. I've think the worst year was up ten or twelve or fourteen percent. I'm not sure exactly.
发言人   04:22
And the average performance was up something like sixteen percent with stability. How do we achieve that? The first thing to do is to know how to achieve a baLance by having proper diversification. You know, when some markets go up, other markets go down, reflecting the conditions. So for example, when the stock market went down, the bond market goes up and the gold market or inflation has jassem went up as the currency went down.
发言人   05:00
And so by achieving the baLance of those investments so that there is not the big cyclical swings in the portfolio, one can achieve a very good return with reducing the risks that a lot because the volatility of these things is financially damaging to most people because they tend to jump on things that investments that are hot, and then that means closer to their tops. My montreal in investing is to have fifteen or some lesser numbers find to uncorrelated return streams. And by understanding that in certain types of environments, like a slow economy, more differ, wary environment, that's not good for stocks, but IT is good for bonds.
发言人   05:51
If you have a lot of printing a money or whatever, then that's good for inflation had just sets. It's like gold. By being able to achieve that baLance, one can have a very attractive return relative to risk, and that's what the game is about.
发言人   06:09
And then also of a longer period of type cash is a very a poor investment. China has you know a chAllenge of investors tending to hold a lot in real estate or in cash deposits, and that is not a good the first fied portfolio. So not only will let is help investors, but IT would help the capital markets.
发言人   06:33
So to be essentially short cash and long a diversified portfolio of assets is a very attractive strategy. So that's our core strategy. How to achieve diversification but not be held in the traditional assets and then there on tactical moves depending on the conditions at hand that achieve that baLance.
发言人   06:56
As I said, my objective now at this stage, my life, as I say, seventy six, is to pass along these principles. So i'm going to be putting out a course in investment course that will teach these kinds of investment principles. And I would like to try to make IT free or almost of no cost to everybody in china so that they can understand how to achieve baLance.
发言人   07:25
So i'm compelled to try to convey exactly how that process works, but by in large, IT works, as i've just described. Yeah, I noticed that course. I think singapore wealth management is currently with a fee we look forward to that we made available in china.
发言人   07:41
We know during a low interest rate environment, long term bond is supposed to be performing very well. So many chinese investors pile into that over the last few last year. But when some hopeful economic size emerge, london bond experience big draw down, just like in the past few days, I don't know where there will be good ways to always watch for the signs and calibrate.
发言人   08:06
No, no, no. Let me i'm sorry for the interruption, but I want to be clear if any asset there is the Price change and the field and what happens in these cycles is that there comes a point that in going to a very low yields, asset becomes very expensive. And so you're when it's going down, you're getting IT through Price appreciation, not yield.
发言人   08:40
okay. And when that's the case, so that the yield becomes low, but you've made profits because of Price appreciation, you should be very scared, okay? Because just look at that yield going forward and that low yield will be an indicator of what's likely to happen.
发言人   09:03
And so that's what you're seeing. So holding again, I would emphasize that when you hold a portfolio of these, you you just simply a and you have no view, you're just rebalancing to that. When IT goes up, you sell more and then you shift to the other so that you're keeping that baLance the same over a period of time.
发言人   09:26
And if you did that as we have as bridgewater has done that, I should say we I passed along now bridgewater. So how bridge waters on that is to achieve that kind of baLance, and that will naturally happen as you rebaLance the portfolio that way. So I think a good way of investing diversity on the low interest environment is being geographically diversified.
发言人   09:52
Bridge water did IT for many years. I think japan also did IT with their need a program. Now china is giving more QD quote recently for chinese. Some chinese say U. S, stock is at historic, car is too expensive, european stock is also historic high.
发言人   10:09
Do you think it's important to be geographically diversified? And is IT now a good time to be geographically diversified? I think IT is always a good time to be diversified.
发言人   10:21
And I think that individuals and investors have got to be very cautious about trying to tell me they should start off by assuming that they are not capable of timing market movements. And they should ask themselves, if I don't have a view of the market, what portfolio should I have? And that portfolio is a diversified portfolio achieving baLance.
发言人   10:50
Because diversification means if you don't know what something's going to do, it's best of that baLance portfolio. And individuals are not going to be able to time the markets and be successful. So yes, I don't make IT a decision of whether the U.
发言人   11:08
S. Stock market and is high. The key is baLance. I would say on what I would say for any investors is the sort of think about maybe you keep half local but in a diversified portfolio, the way the all weather portfolio works.
发言人   11:26
In other words, IT includes some goal that includes some bonds in a baLanced way. And then you take, you know, maybe it's not eat, maybe you have more domestically, but that you put in some in you know ten markets or something like that. But knowing how to baLance well, you wanted baLance the risks will not just dollars, not whatever the currency is.
发言人   11:50
And that requires a little bit of understanding, which i'll explain. But if you have that risk balancing and diversification, IT is certainly an improvement, an important source of improvement of raising your having good returns while reducing risk. Just to give you the math of this, if I bring an uncorrelated assets, if I one asset and I bring in, uh, a second and a third and they have no correlation, but about the same expected return, I will lower the risk by about a third.
发言人   12:26
And if I could get that to ten to fifteen assets that are uncorrelated, I can low IT by sixty to eighty percent the risk and keep the return the same. Imagine that that improves the return to risk ratio by a factor of up to five. Other words, you can have the same expect or return over a period type, but with only one fifth of risk.
发言人   12:53
And that's the game yeah you mention try not to time IT. Then what's the right way to do IT, say dollar cost averaging? Or what kind of way should should you're putting money in? First, understand how much risk your putting in.
发言人   13:11
So pay attention to the assets risk, not just eight dollars. So for example, stocks have about twice the volatility as bonds. And so to achieve baLance, you want to equal volatility.
发言人   13:30
Wait those. And then if you engineer that well, you could achieve that. That's a little bit complicated to explain. But then when you're going in, it's good to dollar cost the average because it's not one moment. But you have to know what that neutral portfolio looks like.
发言人   13:47
And that again, the reason I say don't time is you have to understand that market timing is a zero sum game for every buyer. There's a seller. There are a smart people.
发言人   14:00
It's like going to the poker table and you know who you playing against. Only a very small percentage of the population can really do well. We put in hundreds of millions of dollars every year and many hundreds of, you know, truly a billion dollars a year or so in trying to play that game.
发言人   14:21
Well, even if you look at the history of investment managers over the last six years, very poor results up and down with the markets by and large. So if you're seeking to have good returns with consistency, I encourage this kind of baLanced approach. Yeah is default all season portfolio you will suggest for the chinese market?
发言人   14:46
I think back in two thousand fourteen, you give tony Robins a version based on U. S. asset.
发言人   14:51
Is there a proportion that you will give to the chinese audience for the chinese market? Perhaps the same principles exist in any country that has nothing to do with the country, only what instruments are available. And we've been able to achieve that baLance using instruments that are available in china.
发言人   15:14
The fund that i'm referring to is a local fund, and it's been able to do that. So the mechanics of how to risk baLance or something that we're not going to be able to freeze in, in this a couple of minutes more than i've said. But I would emphasize that the instruments are available on sure to be able to achieve that.
发言人   15:38
Yes, one instrument dear to you is gold. It's rising very well over the past year. But when actually when I look over twenty, thirty year, Harrison is indeed rising also very well.
发言人   15:50
Many would think they would prefer to hold productive asset. How best to think about or they convinced us the value of allocating or investing in a unproductive asset like gold. You're right, it's an unproductive asset, just like cash is an unproductive asset.
发言人   16:10
If you put your money in cash, it's an unproductive asset very similar. So you have to think of IT is being like a type of money. The main thing about IT is, is an effective diversifying asset, and it's an asset that does well when money does not do well.
发言人   16:27
I think that most people look at their portfolios and the costs of things through the lens of their currency. And when they do that, that creates a distorted picture because they don't realize that their currency is going down. They see other things going up like they see gold going up or they see other assets going up.
发言人   16:54
But but if you're looking at everything in an inflation adJusting dollars or inflation adJusting reman b, that's the right way to look at IT. And over a period of time. Gold has been money and maybe they are alternative money.
发言人   17:10
Some of the digital currencies pit, some people would argue our alternative money and for the most part, that is money and that there's too much up. So when i'm trying to convey is that it's really that value of money has gone down during that period. And I want to emphasize when I say gold, i'm not saying that you should have more than an appropriate diversifying amount of gold.
发言人   17:41
I'm not saying that you know, i'm really talking about having a basic amount that in a portfolio optimize would be typically around fifteen percent. But at whether it's ten percent or five percent of the portfolio, IT will diverse five all the parts of the portfolio. So one has to think of IT as a risk reducer in the event that money as a whole goes down a lot because there's too much printing of debt and too much printing of money.
发言人   18:15
So I should certainly be apart, but I can want to emphasize, don't look individually at the parts, look at how the parts fit together to create a well diversified portfolio. Look at the value of money, say, for the dollar, I think you recently U. S.
发言人   18:32
Economy is in a relatively good shape, while the global economy is relatively weak, that should support到了，but in your eye is dollar in a structural downtrend. What I want to emphasize is the supply and demand of debt. And that debt is money and money e's debt t but what I mean by that, dad, is a promise to deliver to you a certain amount of money.
发言人   19:04
And so it's uncollected money. Think of you that way, but it's money. And and when you're storing your money, you store IT in that. And so that's what I mean by dead is money and money is that.
发言人   19:20
And so what i'm saying is when there's too much of IT and it's being added too quickly and IT produces that problems, it's inevitable that dealing with those problems is either going to be you have to face the choice that you have hard money, which produces a problem because hard money, that means that interest rates have to go up because of this supplied a man baLance and demand goes down and markets go down or there needs to be the production of more money that helps to service the debt. And so in this environment that we're talking about, I think that's the overriding theme. Yeah, you also mention the digital currency just now.
发言人   20:10
I think you also own some bitcoin in recent years. What's your perspective on online any downside or upside compared to only gold? I've on a small percentage of bitcoin for a number of years.
发言人   20:25
I've kept that percentage the same. I'm looking at IT as a diversification, a diversifier relative to gold because the question is what is a solid money as a storehouse? Ld of wealth, IT is under ably popular.
发言人   20:41
I think IT has disadvantages. I don't think central banks are owned. IT gold is the second largest reserve currency, first dollars, second gold, third euro, fourth japanese yen and so on.
发言人   20:58
Central banks, well, long gold. And there's a saying that gold is the only asset that you can own that isn't somebody else is liability. And what they mean by that is somebody else promise you to give you the money.
发言人   21:12
IT is intrinsically money and IT can be held without those risks. This is very important, particularly in a chAllenging political or geopolitical environment, when you can have sanctions such as happened with russia or in world more to the japan, assets were frozen. And so for those reasons, gold is more attractive generally speaking to me analytically.
发言人   21:40
But none's, I hold some as an alternative? Yeah, I figured you only bitcoin is like it's a store hold of value function is this. And now that many people pay attention to stable coin, the stable coin also offer this kind of function.
发言人   21:59
No, a stable coin tie the currency to the stable coin. So it's a claim to get the currency that is connected to and IT doesn't provide interest. So it's worse in the financial sense then holding an asset that in a currency that provides interest, IT has transactional benefits to IT, global transaction benefits to IT.
发言人   22:32
So it's effectively almost like a clearing system that allows transactions. So it's particularly appreciated by those who don't care too much about the interest rate. They give up the interest rate.
发言人   22:48
So in a very high inflation country in which the interest rate is almost the detail, they say I can hold of a transaction. So if you're in argentina or some of those places where you do not have access to a reserve currency that provides interest, there can be demand for IT. So that's how stable coin works.
发言人   23:11
But IT doesn't serve the primary purpose of being a currency that is limited in supply and that will be stable in relationship to others. What is Better? Our inflation index bonds. China does not currently have inflation index bonds, but inflation index bonds are a very good asset for being able to store one's money, because IT guarantees you that you will have the whatever inflation rate is you'll be compensated for plus a real interest rate of some form.
发言人   23:48
And so that is a lower risk preferred as IT yeah from what you explain, that makes me wonder how much demand will eventually be for stable coin? And will that be really be able to solve US. That issue? I guess we'll see.
发言人   24:07
The idea is that buyers will buy these, particularly in emerging countries where there's greater concern and they don't care too much about the interest rate. That buyers will buy those for those purposes or transactions and that the law requires that the um stable going producers have IT secured by government bonds and government debt. And so the idea is that the purchases of stable point will lead to the purchases of U.
发言人   24:45
S. Government debt. And then that becomes questionable because where did they take the money from? If they are holding us that, then they'll just move IT to this.
发言人   24:55
What is the new demand? I think the main point is though that stable coin is not a great stores hold of wealth. Yeah, that's right.
发言人   25:03
Let mean shift to some general investment lessons last time I interview you to nineteen, you mentioned individual investor face some big chAllenges. Could you offer some investment lessons for the general public, maybe not professional investors? I know you also trying to educate your grandchildren on how to invest and on personal finance.
发言人   25:27
Yes, gladly. What I experienced, and I think everyone experiences, is the importance of saving. And what I experienced was that I would calculate how many months could I sustain my lifestyle if no new money came in and not for whatever number of years I had to do that.
发言人   25:54
I took that number and doubled that in case that would go down a lot. Saving gives you a foundation, a security that gives you a freedom that is very, very important. What I also did and continue to do for my children who know adults and my grandchildren, is every birthday and every Christmas I give them a gold coin.
发言人   26:25
I say to them, you can sell the gold coin. You can only pass IT to your next generation one day. When the day comes where you have a breakdown of the monetary system, then you can go at you, either you or your children as it's passed on from generation.
发言人   26:46
And what I found is that it's very satisfying to them because rather than give them gifts, I still do, of course, give them toys and things like happen, not too much. They can see saving. They experience saving.
发言人   27:00
And as a result, they start to see IT accumulate, where the toys or the junk that I would give them would all disappear. And then they're building that. My point is in those in describing those two things, is that the basic amount of money in the securing of that money is very important in securing safety for oneself, for one's family.
发言人   27:26
And so knowing how to do that and then learning enough about investments so as to be able to diversify that well and to be able to secure one's living standards is important. When you go above that level, whatever that level is, then it's a different thing. Then you could take a different kind of risk, you know, try to make the most amount of money and then IT becomes more, you know, more of a game to me.
发言人   27:53
I've always loved IT because IT was a game. If you're think about saving, think about the usage of money and also think about the returns in inflation, adjust the ways another words is buying power that you're trying to store. And so when you look at an interest rate and let's say the interest rate was four percent and your inflation rate is three percent, that you only really earn one percent in your buying power.
发言人   28:22
So anyway, those would be the suggestions that I would have for the common person. I applied IT to myself, and i'm playing IT to my family, I think get those fundamentals well taken care of and then you can go on and take a higher level of risk. Yeah, that's why also many now they think about different buckets.
发言人   28:42
One is really safe investment bucket, and the other might be trying to come back market more riskier investment. Yes, gambling. And but I want to emphasize, you're going to the poker table with a lot of smart people who put hundreds of a millions or billions of dollars or same in rem b to play that game well.
发言人   29:07
So start by experimenting in amounts that are tolerable so that you can experience and look at back, look at the investment professionals now and look back six years and say how to have they don't those professionals and don't be arrogant, understand that. Be humble in terms of your thinking about that. Yeah, one very interesting advice you gave me last time is go against your instinct.
发言人   29:38
H this might be not very easy for most people. So that bows. The question of how to adjust a portfolio.
发言人   29:45
I discover, I think pure authors is doing well first half this year and the last year also doing well compared to the broader global hedge fund industry. And also IT returned to cash to client. And also I think earlier this year, the china always found also return cash after being the biggest foreign PF.
发言人   30:05
M, having I seen over fifteen percent return for the half a year. So is there a lesson to be learned in rebalancing? And how do you care?
发言人   30:17
Another words, having a strategic asset allocation goal to achieve baLance, and then when one market goes up and another goes down to rebaLance to that strategic asset allocation goal will give the discipline of taking profits and then also buying lower. So what rebalancing is very important. Yeah, this really requires discipline and the important psychological skills.
发言人   30:51
I guess that's the game. You know, it's like a lot of life, get oneself in self control. I've also found that I built computer systems.
发言人   31:02
As you might know, I, through many, many decades, have written down my decision rules. I call them principles. I write down these principles, and then I computerized them.
发言人   31:15
And by having a computerized game plan that I just keep executing, it's a real advantage in avoiding those emotional decisions that could be harmful. To know what the results would have been, you have to have a game plan. And if you're going to do at your game plan, should have been back tested. And so you have a sense of how that game plan would perform. And then you will have the ability to not have the emotional decisions lead you to make the wrong decision.