TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/19/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8833  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-19T16:22:02+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FZFdl90qmCQ
SHA256: 361065245081703ac06dbd5b3a4d0b7cde6fbe87e059e34ea3b77f151b8752ae

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2027] cut until October 2027.
  [1%] down a tenth of 1% on the Nasdaq, down
  [2026] 2026? Good morning, Lisa. And no doubt,
  [7%] more than 7%. Coming up this hour catch
  [6%] Up by close to 6% WTI down by 0.3. A big
  [0.3] Up by close to 6% WTI down by 0.3. A big
  [3%] 3%. It's not a Block story. I thought
  [10%] about 10% of its staff.
  [1970] ala 1970s, you can see this
  [2%] than 2% and look at this. The spread is
  [5%] nearly 5% in the pre-market. The company
  [20000] could impact as many as 20,000 jobs or
  [2022] sort of '73, '79, 2022. And I think that
  [2028] runs until 2028.
  [4%] and 1/4%. And we end on a positive note
  [40%] 40% No, those levels are breaking.
  [2020] markets of an inflationary 2020s.
  [15%] patients lose over 15%
  [0.6] negative 0.6, opening up a wide gap
  [10000] $10,000 a pop and only hitting about a
  [0.5%] &gt;&gt; Equity futures down by 0.5% on the S&amp;P
  [50%] England a 50% chance of three hikes this
  [30%] of we put a bull case of 30% probability
  [205000] the labor market front. Just 205,000
  [0.2] by 0.2. Check out the moves in crude.
  [119.13] Brent overnight a high of 119.13
  [2013] days they're going back to 2013 at least
  [2.3%] today. Down on the DAX by 2.3% on the
  [5.6%] 5.6%.
  [6.3%] with a Five Below. Shares are up 6.3%.
  [200000] Intelligence is expecting about 200,000
  [6600] on record saying 6,600, you probably
  [2008] hike in 2008 by the ECB that you said
  [96.90] 114, WTI at 96.90. Brent up by close to
  [1948] ended as Fed chair in 1948 and he stayed
  [2014] pandemic going back to 2014. And you're
  [3.81] at twos right now at 3.81. The upper end
  [3.75] of the Fed's target fund rate is 3.75.
  [0.2%] right now, the S&amp;P declining by 0.2% on
  [1.4%] percentage points. WTI up by just 1.4%.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Today, the FOMC decided to leave our
policy rate unchanged.
Middle Eastern shock that we're facing
here.
going on in the Middle East is a speed
bump.
dots um very seriously.
accuracy here.
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday wrestling with escalation.
Major energy assets taking significant
hits across the Middle East sending
Brent crude surging and fueling another
spike in gas prices leaving President
Trump struggling to stop the situation
spinning out of control. That story is
where we begin this hour. The White
House looking to limit the fallout from
the Israeli strike on Iranian gas
fields.
extensive damage to a Qatari complex
housing the world's largest LNG export
plant. The president playing down US
involvement suggesting no more such
strikes will be made unless Iran
continues to target similar assets in
Qatar. It's a struggle to turn down the
temperature.
about oil barrels and gas shipments that
aren't traveling in the the strait, but
we're also talking about barrels that
are not going to come back so quickly
because of energy fields that are
getting struck.
She said, "We think there may be too
much emphasis on the taco trade as Iran
could continue attacks even if President
Trump seeks to call time to restore a
measure of deterrence against future
American military action."
a huge port on the Red Sea, a refinery
at that port in Saudi Arabia that was
hit today. Yesterday it was all about
Qatar. This is a new phase of the war.
Military installations are not only the
targets now. Actual energy
infrastructure and I'm talking about
massive energy infrastructure facilities
are at play right now and that is why
you see Brent crude absolutely spiking
in response to what is going on in the
region.
piece by piece. Just unpack this
briefly. Look at the US versus Europe in
the equity markets so far this morning.
Equity futures stateside on the S&amp;P 500
just about unchanged. Check out Europe.
On the DAX this morning down by more
than 2% and look at this. The spread is
opening up between WTI and Brent close
to 20 bucks earlier on this morning.
Brent's up by seven, WTI unchanged. What
do you think that is starting to speak
to?
between two markets, both the European
Brent market and the US market which
implies that they can stay separated for
a prolonged period of time. Sure, the
physical barrels that are coming from
Iran and from Iraq and from Saudi Arabia
are going largely to Europe. see of
course natural gas and a question around
exactly where they're going to get it
given that a fifth of the supplies are
now potentially offline for a while. At
the same time, is there no coming
together of these two markets? That
really raises a question. The United
States is a net net energy exporter. I
think what the market is reading right
now that besides the Jones Act waiver
which yesterday the president signed
which is going to mean that any US any
vessel doesn't need to be a US vessel
can carry energy products to any port in
the United States. The market I think is
starting to price in the fact that the
next step this administration can take
is banning export of products and that
is why WTI is tamed and Brent is going
to go potentially parabolic.
more than 7%. Coming up this hour catch
up with Seema Shah of Principal Asset
Management with stocks pulling back.
Michael Harnett of Bank of America as
private credit concerns press on and
Krishna Guha of Evercore as Fed chair
Jay Powell vows to stay on through the
DOJ investigation. We begin this hour
with our top story, crude surging past
110 following strikes on major energy
sites across the Middle East.
Bloomberg's Jamila Abu Sbeih joins us
now for more from Dubai. Jamila, good
morning. Escalation in the last 24
hours.
Indeed, John. And and that's kind of
been the theme every single day. Day 20
of this war, another major escalation
overnight. And after those Israeli air
strikes on Iran's main gas field, the
South Pars gas field, Iran did vow to
retaliate in a meaningful capacity. They
said that the energy infrastructure
sites across the Gulf would be
legitimate targets. And indeed, that is
what transpired in the evening
yesterday. They have essentially lashed
out at multiple Gulf states and at some
of these key areas, including refineries
in Kuwait, refineries in Riyadh. We've
just heard as well in the past hour that
they also launched attacks at the Yanbu
port. That is a key port on the Red Sea.
So, they're targeting a different part
of a whole different geography now and
has been a key
source for Saudi Arabia to reroute some
of their own oil. But I guess the
biggest development, the most notable
one, has been them targeting that Ras
Laffan facility once again in Qatar.
Now, in the early days of the war, they
did target the same facility, which led
Qatar Energy to announce this force
majeure. But the difference is
yesterday, while Qatar authorities
successfully intercepted four missiles,
one of the missiles managed to
penetrate, it broke through, and caused
quote unquote extensive damage. And that
is the language that was put out by
Qatar Energy themselves. And so, we've
moved on to a new phase here, where the
market doesn't just have to account for
the disruption of flows in the fact that
the flows are being stuck in and around
the Persian Gulf, but possible
destruction of physical supply as well.
And this is the key game-changing moment
overnight. President Trump is trying to
distance himself from those initial
Israeli air strikes on on the Iranian
gas fields. but I will say the re- the
response that's coming through from the
Gulf states really speaks to one of
anger and the fact that this from their
perspective is a massive game changer.
The perception is that Iran have really
crossed the red line here. You don't
have to go so far. Uh the ADNOC CEO
Sultan Al Jaber just put up a a a a
comment on LinkedIn saying that this
weaponization of energy needs to stop.
Civilian infrastructure should not be a
target. The Saudi foreign minister has
gone one step further and said that
their patience is not uh uh indefinite
and uh Saudi Arabia reserves the right
to respond in a political fashion or and
he adds and in non-political fashion as
well. Qatar Ministry of Foreign Affairs
put out several statements overnight
calling this a flagrant violation of
their sovereignty. They also kicked out
the military and the security I should
say security and political attachés that
Iran had in the country. So, a major
escalation. Jumana with the latest.
Jumana, thank you. Jumana Bacetti out of
Dubai leading our coverage out of the
region again this morning. This is odd,
the president attempting to distance
himself from events in the last 24
hours. Axios standing by their
reporting. We've touched on that a few
times. The strike was carried out in
coordination with and with the approval
of the United States.
the news initially came back and said
when he spoke to a number of officials
both in US as well as in Israel, they
confirmed that the US was aware of this.
It is a real question. What is the
signal that President Trump is trying to
distance himself and distance the United
States from these strikes? Is that an
attempt to de-escalate things? Is this
an attempt for domestic uh popularity?
Is this uh an attempt to potentially
placate some of the Saudi Arabian and
UAE leaders? A real question about the
signal more than the actual fact here.
of what was going on in terms of Israel
going after South Pars, didn't
……（中部抽样）……
participate, but was aware. Jumana
speaks to?
in the US, but in an international
waiting to see how the conflict ends.
to be the outperformer because it's
as you said, the central banks globally
uncertainty with this specific conflict
about affordability and in a midterm
anytime soon, and as we witness over the
major gas fields. The president saying
Bloomberg brief, John. Yuharra, thank
lots about that spread opening up
ballistic missile arsenal. And of course
largest natural gas field, a person
infrastructure on Kharg Island, where
for higher content ethanol gasoline to
because they said that as you pointed
closing the Straits of Hormuz.
going to try and extract a high price
Iran the space to use its leverage. It's
somewhat less experienced individuals
120 on Brent overnight right now about
for some of the expensive bills that
hike is not on the table?
until inflation comes down. So all that
President Trump saying the US would
selling some units. So, this isn't
demand led. You know, it wasn't supply
Well, I mean, it it it it will feed into
market was pricing in some kind of short
delays it somewhat. What what do you
No, they'll go they'll No, I mean that
I think they will eventually cut. And
go down until the policy makers hear
you know, lower income consumer that
feels very, very different in the last
of energy supplies must be protected
the Fed chair digging in.
it was that will flip back in next week
Powell yesterday. We just do not know
curve. That's the highest yield we've
drive the bus and how much does the US
times in the last 24 hours. I'd love
Market wants to see that. The second
there's there's a sort of narrow sense
inclined to stay, possibly either way at
in the circumstances a pretty dovish Fed
guess that's certainly something that
Um you know, look, we've we have an
lock in that one and maybe get them to
buying opportunity, quite honestly.
anything that the US is potentially
potentially they're going to discuss it
de-escalate, given the fact that Iran
morning, that we're on the edge and very
attacks on energy pushes crude higher.
move in crude? Uh they are to a certain
perspective on that particular topic and
bit of a be careful what you wish for if
of the Fed's target fund rate is 3.75.
Possibly, but also on the on the other
market is too conditioned by this idea
Micron delivered amazing earnings last
Does it encourage you when you see HSBC
implications of bigger job losses? We
just amazing. It's frustrating for a lot
financial sponsors and the banks, less
Vice President J.D. Vance and other key
Energy Attacks.
Natural gas prices having a major move
Nobody thought they were going to hit.
that call as the country threatens we
President Trump reiterated a threat that
Congress for a federal gas tax holiday.
States can do without committing ground
cheap they are to produce means they
Strait of Hormuz. So basically is the
It's quite remarkable and not honestly
strait, you need two things. One, you
countries have made really substantial
if they're needing to invest in
there, the Council on Foreign Relations
about what the US would do and the
morning movers. Danny Hasmore Hey Danny.
they're up 3, 7.3%.
this. On one hand, you could say people
it remains uncertain if military escorts
the menu this administration? What left
complications for the LNG market in the
no more price spread. There's no more
you're not exporting TI to the rest of
the US, it has to net import products.
with WTI coming up to meet Brent crude.
time. Are you surprised that there isn't
hours would, I think, suggest an
wasn't really sending product or oil or
United States is not a monolith. If we
Pakistan, Bangladesh, India supply to
Goldman Sachs breaking down the
your Bloomberg brief. Yohara has more.
admirer of Nvidia and its CEO Jensen
the ECB. Into that, futures softer,
the wrong direction and frankly, this
will then continue to serve as a
usually for a chairman to be confirmed
acting chairman of that board. So,
conversation or turning the volume down
leave his seat and give the President
say
sentiment survey,
independence of the Federal Reserve,
accuracy here.
ready to act to contain inflation." And
yet. I'm curious to see to read into all
tighter monetary policy on top of that.
Federal Reserve, this is what Joseph Gan
field, a report from Axios confirming it
installations across the Middle East get
provide opportunities in weeks and not
at the end of the day, in the US, the
energy importers, and you know, I'm from
US, this is giving an investors
the next 12 to 24 months? Probably not.
products, not equities. What a month of
that we are going to unwind the
it is under discussion. Okay, maybe it's
hour from now, you might get the ECB
Bank of England and over the ECB in the
the demand shock. The demand shock that,
morning. And you've got a major move in
President Donald Trump pushing for a
robo-taxis. Uber will purchase 10,000
market. Let's just focus on the very
hour's time. To me, me fact that this
And then this.
door. Let's stick with our top story,
This The The loss of the flows through
the Bab el Mandeb Strait is affected. If
prices to rebalance the oil market. Max,
I would like to make a comparison to the
And you know, I think there
attacks in the region that that disrupt
the other headlines as well. Bramo, that
sell to the rest of the world at a high
has spoken about in Trump 1 and he went
central bank is on pause worried about
really cannibalize from people's
going to hold or hike rates. The fact
it hearkens back to the 1970s or even
outlined, the US Treasury Secretary
de-escalate. As we've seen these targets
me but also said that US negotiators
have European refiners that took in some
Secretary basically just said it out
labor market front. Some good news on
hold.
um since we had the whole blowup that
looking at this environment said, "We've
sufficiently pricing in the hit to
peel back the onion to really get to the
street, if not the strongest number on
the system. But again, people have ways
with nuclear power. We were old steam
changing license plates every morning,
what Steve was talking about. Changing
Secretary Scott Bassin saying the US
Brief, John. Johanna, thank you. Thanks
to Samantha Della Goldman earlier on
……（接近结尾）……
tables have turned, how much things have
changed in the Bank of England and
frankly for the ECB, where we now have
three rate hikes priced in for the
remainder of this year.
more. Ian, good morning. Good morning.
What a morning, sir. What do you make of
these moves? And do you think we're
overdoing it at the front end of the US
curve?
So, I think that the US is in a specific
situation since the Fed has a dual
mandate. And we were already uncertain
about the labor market going in to this
series of events. Europe, the UK, that
makes more sense given how we would
expect monetary policy makers to react
there. I do think that it is not the
type of move to jump in front of because
there's so much uncertainty associated
with what's going on in the Middle East
and how that's going to continue to play
through to the energy sector. We could
get a $125, $130 a barrel oil very
easily if this continues to unfold in a
scale that is measured in months, not
weeks as it was originally intended. I'm
struck by the yield curve, which is
rapidly compressing, rapidly narrowing.
People are expecting that higher front
end yields are going to send growth
substantially lower and perhaps even
more so in the Euro region. How much
confidence do you have that that is the
correct move? That there is going to be
a move much lower, say in 2027,
in response to holding rates higher,
whether it's hiking or whether it's just
a hold.
I think that a flatter curve in this
environment makes sense. I think 10 and
30 year should outperform because if the
Fed does fight inflation, delays rate
cuts, then we should see break evens
compress over time and nominal rates
slip lower. What I'm worried about is
I'm worried about the fact that we
haven't fully integrated what happens to
demand in this situation. What happens
to the fact that we have higher
um prices at the pump that leads to
consumers needing to make some hard
choices and we could see consumers under
a lot of stress over the next several
quarters, which undermines the strong
growth argument in the US, which has
kind of defined us for the last couple
years. So, Ian, when you put this shock
together, is it bullish or bearish for
fixed income? For bonds, for Treasuries?
I think it's long-term bullish for
Treasuries. Lower rates remains my base
case. I think 10 year yields are below
4% by the end of the year and I think
that the two year sector is going to
continue to struggle. Super, super
volatile at the front end of the curve
right now. Major moves. 30 basis points
plus in the UK, double digits in the US
and you're starting to see it in growth.
This move in base metals, and I keep
going back to it, aluminum down by
seven, copper down by five. Precious
metals providing you no relief
whatsoever this morning. Gold down by
five, silver down by 11.
The aluminum and copper moves directly
speaking to what Ian Ling is talking
about, which is demand destruction. And
the idea that people are starting to
comprehend what that looks like as they
hit to global growth. It looks
increasingly likely. I just wonder how
long this can go on before people have
to start talking about other ways that
this feeds through to the market,
including in the US. We have this whole
idea that data centers are going to save
us. How do you build them if you don't
have access to a lot of the materials?
How do you build them if you don't have
easy access to the energy prices? So,
there are a lot of questions here around
frankly the bull case for all markets,
global markets in particular going into
the year.
rate decision. Good luck. In the next
hour, there's a news conference with
Christine Lagarde of the European
Central Bank. Is she going to follow
what we heard from the chairman
yesterday, from the Bank of England this
morning? And if she does,
what does it mean for this market? Ian
Ling, and thank you, sir. Ian Ling and
there of Tomorrow, full reaction
for you. John Stoltzfus Oppenheimer,
Michael Zezas of Morgan Stanley, Lofti
Karoui of PIMCO, Jonathan Golub of
Seaport from New York City this morning.
Good morning. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.