TITLE: The Petrochemicals Shock That's Already Rippling Through Plastics | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 3204  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-25T13:49:04+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zOSVQy3nfcY
SHA256: 06e309fa63b721fe26b04438612f8dc89ca145ba811f206df39a80992bb2b33e

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2026] of January 2026, provisionally.
  [12%] polyethylene varieties, that's about 12%
  [100%] rates, 90 to 100%. So, roughly an
  [2025] in 2025, one of the few things that the
  [14%] slightly higher, 13-14%.
  [4%] 3 to 4%. Styrene, which is another major
  [7%] to 7%. So, the Middle East in terms of
  [17%] that's probably around 15 to 17% of
  [25%] That's 61 million tons of ethylene, 25%
  [2018] India for example since 2018 2019 huge
  [2019] India for example since 2018 2019 huge
  [1300] Now, around $1,300. So, the price has
  [1.2] is because you only need 1.2 tons of
  [3.2] naphtha, you need about 3.2 tons of
  [2.2] large crackers, 2.2 million tons in
  [60%] to 60% of their total capacity. Below
  [70%] to 70% of ethylene, which again is the
  [85%] was running at about 85% before and they
  [15%] so 10 to 15% difference, that's about 4
  [2030] assume that by 2030 about 30 to 50% of
  [50%] assume that by 2030 about 30 to 50% of
  [10%] from it, which is about 10% of China's
  [300000] 200 to 300,000 barrels per day. Which is
  [2022] then, 2022, 2023, a lot of the
  [2023] then, 2022, 2023, a lot of the
  [2027] 2027.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
radio, news.
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway.
prop episode.
going to hold this up.
indeed a highlighter, but more
importantly, it is a result of a complex
petrochemicals supply chain.
purplish. I don't know why I always
thought it was a little bit more
pinkish, but yes, you're correct. You're
right. You're correct. You're totally
correct.
this conversation to be the difference
between pink and magenta. Okay.
advanced chemicals of all sorts and oil
and all that, you would never have the
plastic shell of the marker and maybe
even some aspects of what gives it color
when you draw something.
casing actually made of? This is a pop
quiz.
Cracked into
ethylene or propylene.
little plastic pellets, which are I know
you know this one.
What are they called? The little plastic
pellets. One of my favorite words.
that episode that we did. Nurdle.
lots of other plastic products would be
nurdles. Okay, so the reason we bring
this up is obviously there's a situation
in Iran. The Strait of Hormuz is still
closed. We're recording this on March
24th and we're starting to see a lot of
the disruptions in the oil market start
to I guess ripple out into other
petrochemicals.
the other day and they were like, "Joe,
is the higher price of oil going to
impact the price of plastics?" And I was
like, "I would be very surprised if it
didn't." I mean, I don't really know for
sure, but it would be very weird. Like,
it would be hard for me to imagine a
scenario in which the key input doesn't.
The thing that I am very curious about
and you described a sort of a sequential
chain of industrial processes from the
oil to the nurdles. And of course, when
we did the episode, one of the things
that we've talked about is that there is
a gap between the price of some of these
end products and the implied price of
crude oil. So, crude oil, I don't know
exactly where it is right now at this
moment that we're recording it, but it
shot up. But these end products have
shot up even more and our guest, Rory
Johnston, had a really good explanation,
which is that the refineries do not want
to shut down. And so, they're rationing,
they're slowing their input their input
because it is very costly to shut down
and ever restart should they ever run
out, which is a prospect given that
we're seeing a volumetric decline in the
amount of oil available in the world.
What I'm curious about, which I don't
know the answer, is whether this applies
to all of the different processing steps
along the way, which is is there this
sort of even greater price impact
because the entities that do all these
sequential industrial processes are
slowing down because the shutdown and
restart process is costly for them as
well.
with a lot of petrochemicals is we are
in fact seeing some closures already.
So, in Asia we've had a few crackers, as
they're called, Asian crackers, start to
shut down their production and basically
declare force majeure. And so, we are
seeing fewer petrochemicals get made in
places like Japan and South Korea. I
think the question we're kind of inching
towards is whether or not this is just
going to be a question of price. You
know, prices for plastics go up or an
actual supply shortage in the sense that
maybe you just can't get certain types
of plastics or packaging. And one other
thing I would just add, I think in the
post-COVID environment, an
underappreciated driver of inflation at
that time was the cost of packaging.
up. And if you think about what you're
buying at a grocery store, like, okay,
it's a bunch of carrots, but it's also a
bunch of carrots in a plastic bag.
whatever. And I would say in a lot of
the cases of food stuffs in particular,
you're mostly paying for the entire
supply chain and the packaging of it.
The actual food value is almost dirt
cheap if nothing. And so, yeah, and are
we just going to get outright shortages?
What are the ripple effects? I don't
think we have any idea. Probably one of
these things that compounds the longer
this war and closure goes on. Many
questions that we have.
in fact have the perfect guest to talk
all things petrochemicals. We're going
to be speaking with Philip Gerts. He is
the chemicals and oil analyst over at
BNEF and a guy who lives and breathes
polymers. Hopefully not literally.
breathes polymers.
coming on Odd Lots.
sounds very sad to introduce me with
living and breathing polymers, but I'll
take it. I'll I'll [laughter] take it
for sure.
microplastics now, right? So, you're not
the only one.
you to kind of list all the
petrochemicals affected by the Strait of
Hormuz, sort of like Forest Gump style.
Ethylene, propylene, polyethylene, you
can go on and on and on. But just
broadly, why don't you tell us about the
Gulf region and its role in the
petrochemicals supply chain?
So, when it comes to chemicals at large,
let's maybe establish three different
categories. We have the feedstock, like
you already pointed out Tracy, basically
you almost don't need me here. But you
have the crude oil that's turned into
naphtha and liquefied petroleum gas,
which are butane and propane
principally, ethane. Those are all the
feedstocks that go into the so-called
crackers, and the crackers turn them in
what we call base chemicals. There are
technically six major base chemicals
that come out of this, but for the sake
of today's discussion the major focus
will probably be really around ethylene,
propylene. If you want to get really
fancy, we can talk about xylenes,
paraxylene
or butadiene, but a lot of the really
the majority of the bulk plastics that
we talk about really come from ethylene
and propylene and some from paraxylene
in terms of polyethylene terephthalate
or also more commonly known as
polyester. So, ethylene, propylene,
xylene are turned into polyethylene,
polypropylene and into polyethylene
terephthalate or polyester.
Now,
you have a wide range of really
different derivative chains. Even within
polyethylene, you have a lot of
subcategories and within those
subcategories, you have other
subcategories. Very simple terms, you
have a three-way division into
high-density polyethylene, low-density
polyethylene and linear low-density
polyethylene.
Doesn't matter too much, but it's good
to be aware of that when we talk about
well in analyst terms about where the
market is moving, we typically look at
high-density polyethylene. What's the
supply demand there? Same goes for
low-density. Obviously, they have
different applications and also within
those larger buckets, there a lot of
subcategories.
Now, to circle back to the major theme
here of what's the position of the
Middle East Gulf?
So, within those three categories,
firstly, the Middle East itself is a
major exporter of polyethylene,
polypropylene, etc., etc., especially of
polyethylene. And when I say major,
let's be specific indeed. Polyethylene,
polyethylene varieties, that's about 12%
of global capacity. Production will be
slightly higher, 13-14%.
Quite a significant chunk. To make that
even more explicit, if you take those
volumes, we're talking about 18 million
tons, 18, of production capacity. And
Middle Eastern crack or Middle Eastern
facilities typically run at very high
rates, 90 to 100%. So, roughly an
equivalent amount of production. If you
take all of that, that's basically as
much as Europe slightly more
consumes. So, it's a lot, right? You
have those volumes firstly being taken
off the market directly. Although,
couple of asterisks here because
technically, polymers are exported
differently than fuel. They're exported
in a solid state, which means
theoretically, there should be the
possibility of diversion that's slightly
easier than for oil, naphtha, or oil
products in general.
Big asterisk there. But if you take all
……（中部抽样）……
of that off the market, you basically
Polypropylene is slightly lower. We're
value chain we're talking about, again 6
that I would argue, is really where you
have crude oil exports that are then
LPG, liquefied petroleum gas, which I'll
details of how dependent each individual
naphtha ex- the naphtha exports and the
global production. So, that's really
there or are there parts of the value
are located. So, if you look at the
barrels per day. So in that case, it
strategically important?
front line of losing its chemical
and then shipped to them?
And another asterisk here is the Middle
this into a pop quiz, that's China.
tons, right? So you already have a huge
Middle East already, Saudi as an
largely gas derived. We can get also get
the overall oil supply chain why
without making highlighters, or maybe we
And so, when we talk about naphtha, we
too worried if we go for a little few
concern without it out would be food
is and I'm just ignorant about it. But,
mean,
is the key thing holding modern-day
So take the take the credit. You're at
if you take, let's say high density
especially high density polyethylene,
really the urgent tasks of the day,
plastics can be circumvented. Especially
from the Middle East and the feed stocks
tell.
if anybody knows in the audience, please
crackers in Asia who have had to reduce
delay.
South Korea, for example, you could see
of March.
gets worse pretty quickly.
about run rates, even demand, right? One
reasonable and based on company
plastics. Because if you look at what
And to me it seems data collection there
numbers are hard to get by. So, circling
about supply being cut. Force majeures,
But if you look at across Asia, you've
per se a full shutdown.
far, my take is the impact has been
I would be very surprised if this does
quotes on this. You can see they're
Now, around $1,300. So, the price has
open liquid markets versus long-term
talk to us about pricing transparency
understanding when it comes to prices
I may be wrong.
the first three to four weeks,
polyethylene in East Asia apparently
are slightly off. So, I'm I'm curious
these regional
you talk about polyethylene prices, for
Europe are largely naphtha-based. And
competitive, is cheaper. But one of the
naphtha. So, you just need a lot more
byproducts, just as a side note.
polymers they're talking about massive
it's it it depends a lot. Usually,
concrete example, Wanwha Chemicals in
They declared force majeure for their
announced is they're declaring force
first place. So, the bottom line here
Question is then also by how much. Kind
fuel, but the sort of the implied barrel
shut down. Can you talk about that in
the price of oil is right now and the
have surged.
much. So, polyethylene consumes about 60
form is used for polyethylene and those
we can cut it to 1/3 or so. It's a huge
the other hand, we can introduce carless
room for demand destruction than
for all of us in a way. Yeah. But so,
potentially months.
just engineering perspective, right?
At a certain point, and maybe there are
destruction on gasoline becomes stronger
those headlines were like 2 months ago.
a lot of production within refinery
possible way where you could compensate
We talk about
Indonesia. Those I think should be
million tons, China 60 million, those
number, but just to give a ballpark,
But if you assume for example that US
would be lost in a in the most extreme
ironic, and which is why I emphasize
They were set to come and now they seem
these short-term disruptions can linger
awash in plastics. Like, okay, let's do
aspects where recycling
I'm utterly unaware of the existing
Exactly, right. It's very much under
to maybe a hundred thousand
said, if you look at the total share of
forte per se.
fill some gaps somewhere. But again, it
gas, they're going to turn to coal for
that's still a thing. Can that in the
know this is going to reshape like you
question here is
unquote normalize, whatever that may
business. And by a lot I mean South
collectively close to 30 million tons.
overcapacity that was in the pipeline
currently
Pretty much
Firstly, what happens afterward if
feedstocks coming from the Middle East.
million tons of ethylene capacity.
works is that coal is converted to
But when it comes to coal, it would need
war.
especially for a country such as China,
things.
Hemisphere here more broadly because I
about chemicals and the potential there,
risk or this heightened perception of
question actually. So, I'm looking at a
I'm like you can't see it. I'm in the
price of jet fuel goes up, flights tend
can substitute ethane.
story that's saying that US producers of
really want to drill down on this point.
So, the furnaces that are used for
type of products that you get from both,
that.
common point of confusion is So, you
despite the fact that LPG and ethane are
the practicality of it,
some exceptions, such as I think the One
on ethane, it fully runs on ethane.
have to go back and
in 2025, one of the few things that the
of us and what does it go into?
deal with that?
what it domestically needs, it has
reason why I answered this question
tons of ethane. And you can make well,
the grand scheme of how much China is
China, which means this is just a
there's a huge wave of new ethane
thinking Yeah, the the ethane hype ends
I think another thing is just production
notable amounts. That's the second point
things are, and it's the sort of
interested in the future of plastics and
I've been in the industry for 4 years,
conversations were about morality of
But, I think nowadays people, to my
are more curious about the baseline
kind of a baseline denominator to get
interested in that.
They ask, "How bad is it? What's going
say we don't know. The war is going on
accessible again. It's just important
just looking at baseline assumptions
my own
of days, weeks to see how things
point number one. Now, when it comes to
inventories. They're not a lot, but they
shortages.
announcements on projects that were in
probably not going to work out in 2026
interesting position. It's not as badly
……（接近结尾）……
appreciate analysts who come with the
numbers just memorized and just rattle
off like, well, there's difference
between production versus capacity, all
of that.
Korea, Malaysia, Japan, Indonesia, all
right, Singapore, that gets you to 44
million that Yeah, the people who can do
that, those are the people that always
know their stuff. And it's a details
matter.
you know, what Philip is looking out for
and his answer, I wrote about this in
the All Thoughts newsletter yesterday,
which is why it's on my mind. But like,
when we're talking about the closure of
the Strait of Hormuz, we're basically
talking about like the choke point of
all choke points in the global economy,
right? And obviously, oil is a big part
of that, but as we just learned in this
episode, so is petrochemicals, so is
fertilizer. We've done previous episodes
on that. And so
it strikes me as almost inevitable that
people are going to come away from this
experience, no matter how long it goes
on for, with the intention to build out
their own capacity or secure their own
supply. And it was interesting even in a
place like Europe, which we tend to
think of sometimes as in structural
decline, certainly in terms of its
chemicals industry,
as a result of this. Even, you know, 3
weeks worth of disruption.
story. It was the main story before the
start of the Iran war and now clearly an
accelerant to this story, which is just
every [snorts] country wanting to have
greater capacity domestically and to be
less reliant on choke points. And look,
if we knew for a fact that the Strait of
Hormuz was A going to reopen just as it
was a month ago and B never close again,
how would you possibly know that? Then
he's like, "Oh, we don't need to do
anything." But like we're in a state, we
know now that like it is closable. We
know it's closable. Not only do we know
that it's closable,
we know that it's closable without a
particularly large military effort that
you fire a few drones or missiles a day,
not even a particularly costly effort,
and you can bring so many industries and
so many countries and so much activity
basically to a halt. That fact can never
be unknown again, basically. That's sort
of what Taleb talks about when he That
is sort of the significant of a black
swan. That that word gets abused a lot
because every time an event happens the
black swan, but the key insight where I
find it actually to be a useful phrase
is if you think all swans are white and
you see a black swan, then you know for
the rest of your life then you know that
they exist. And so it is a black swan in
the sense that if the Strait of Hormuz
can be closed, which is something that
people have contemplated before with
relatively little effort, you're going
to know that the rest of your life and
that's going to change planning for the
rest of your life and it'll be really
interesting to see. It's also just
interesting I think his point about how
because of Chinese supply so many of
these Korean, Japanese, etc. crackers
were already in trouble and now what's
going to happen there, I mean that is
also a really big structural shortage.
There's sort of a the milkshake of
economic activity pouring into China
relative to everywhere else. So lots of
things going on at once.
of polyethylene, especially packaging.
Like the idea that we're not all
suddenly going to switch to burlap bags
and bring our own like wooden crates to
to pick up like beans from the
Yeah, I I could see that being an
aesthetic choice that some people go
with, but not scalable.
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway.
me at The Stalwart. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Arman Dash at
Dash Bot and Keil Brooks at Keil Brooks.
And for more Odd Lots content, go to
Bloomberg.com/oddlots
for the daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 24/7 in our Discord
discord.gg/oddlots.
and other polymers, then please leave us
a positive review on your favorite
podcast platform. [music]
And remember, if you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely ad-free. All you
need to do is find the Bloomberg [music]
channel on Apple Podcasts and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.