TITLE: Physics Gets a Vote: Nominal Cofounders on Hardware Development in an AI World
CHANNEL: Sequoia Capital
DURATION_S: 2456  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-10T12:01:08+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bPwU0GazM1I
SHA256: 6655a1719442a8dc68e467ab415deaa413caa7646e2f517b676b5bc60df48a1a

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2019] there around sort of 2018-2019 frame.
  [2020] uh you know, 2003 to 2019, 2020. Um and
  [2018] there around sort of 2018-2019 frame.
  [2003] uh you know, 2003 to 2019, 2020. Um and
  [2021] of of coming from 2020, 2021 into the
  [10000] review of if you have 10,000 sensors
  [100%] get 100% you know satisfaction. But, I

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
We're entering a period where there is
going to be much more hardware testing.
So, I actually think that we are like
the pendulum is going to swing back. I
think we are coming to grasp with how
little we actually understand about how
physical systems operate in the world
and how like lacking we are from a data
perspective. It's going to be a a race
to try to like collect this data and
actually develop these these models. I
always think of it as like if you have
AGI designing like a video game for your
child, like you might let them play it
without it being like rigorously tested.
Just a video game. But if you had AGI
like building a toy for your child, you
would like really want to make sure that
It's like the physical world will just
always be different cuz it's what we
live in.
joining us today. Thanks for having us.
Nominal is the all-in-one data and AI
platform for hardware engineering. You
are used by amazing companies from
Anduril all the way to the Corvette
racing team in industries including
aerospace and defense, robotics,
autonomy and more. And I think one
notable stat you just shared with me,
you're used by four of the top five
defense primes in the US.
Congratulations on on everything so far
including the the recent race. Thanks so
much. Yeah, thank you. Let's jump right
in.
You've talked about how we're entering a
new age of hardware
and that, you know, America is rapidly
reindustrializing its industrial base.
Can you just discuss that? Yeah.
I think
we we talk a lot about there there are a
few I think tailwinds macro tailwinds
that that nominal is not really
benefiting from now in terms of
industrialization and in hardware
development. Um
really when when we think about that,
we have this huge uh compression in
timeline. Uh people are trying to build
and field hardware products faster than
they ever have before.
Um we think hardware testing plays a
particular part in that and and we can
cover that in much more detail. I think
re-industrialization more broadly, um
more money is going into building
hardware products uh really really
rapidly. Um particularly, you know, an
area where where we're very prevalent in
is in aerospace and defense. Um and I
think really the paradigm of how
hardware is being developed is shifting
really really rapidly. I'll give a
little sort of vignette I think of how
we kind of think about it. Um you know,
I think if you look back at um
core software development and you think
about um what kind of happened over the
past two decades, I think one really
good way to to think about it is
actually talking about uh GitHub as an
example.
And I'll I'll use that to talk about,
you know, GitHub is a version control
system, right? A VCS. But if you go back
and like you do a little history, it's
like companies that were building pure
software used to uh
you know,
it they would locally manage versions of
their their software that they would
develop. Um they would, you know,
eventually they started to centralize
that internally, but still within the
company. It's all internally managed.
And then eventually it got so good it
became productized and outsourced. And,
you know, venture dollars pour in and
that was really I think the first of uh
you know, the creation of something like
like GitHub, but I think all of the sort
of CICD and and DevOps, you know, tools
that we we take for granted uh today.
And and the software testing problem
really is a solved problem. But that
same luxury does not exist for the
hundreds of thousands of hardware
engineers that are now at the frontier
of software defined hardware, autonomy,
and robotics. And that's really the
space that that Nominal is playing in.
What do you think is driving the, you
know, hardware feels hot again? I have
so many hardware companies on my on my
calendar every week. Seems like there's
a whole generation of founders that
feels regalvanized. They've been trained
at the likes of Anduril, SpaceX, Tesla.
Like, what what do you think is
driving it? Feels like there's something
in the water in the kind of
reindustrialization kind of startup
community.
probably a a positive frame answer to
that question and probably like a a
negative frame answer to the question,
too. I think the positive frame is I
think that we're just like I think
humanity is sort of reconciling there's
like these big oscillations. I think
with like a lot of the ambition and a
lot of the things we want to exist in
the world are in the physical world. And
I think people are just sort of coming
around
again two decades of like the
SaaS-ification of the world and I think
people are just excited to build real
things again. And I think particularly
companies like SpaceX, like Anduril,
like Tesla I think have proven that if
you make investments in the the
infrastructure and the tools to do this
type of hardware development, it's a
massive competitive advantage. That's a
positive frame. I think that the
opposite frame I mean I think is, you
know, we can talk about, you know, AI
and how it is impacting many many worlds
here. I think, you know, hardware is
still a world where there is
defensibility in itself because
hardware's hard, right? I think there's
there's it's capital intensive. It's
difficult to bend metal and steel and
electronics and and, you know, all of
this world is like it's very difficult.
And so I think that,
you know, there's there's people excited
about it from
an investment perspective as well.
Awesome.
So,
one of the things that we've always
observed is that there's a big gap
between what works in simulation and
what works in real life. What's that gap
today? How do you like help
founders with that gap? And how do you
make it
concrete for them? Yeah, I'll start and
then I'll Jason I'll I'll pass to you as
as more of the expert. But,
I lived I lived this problem very very
viscerally at my time at Anduril. I got
there around sort of 2018-2019 frame.
The the was very early in there was I
think it was very in vogue particularly
then to try and simulate everything.
Um and I think that the real power comes
from blending simulation outputs of
models with real-world telemetry sensor
data logs coming off of physical
systems. And the advantage is being able
to do that continuously and very
iteratively. Um I saw the pendulum swing
to let's do everything in simulation.
Let's like get as early as we can in the
design life cycle. Like we can solve
problems there. Um but we sort of always
joke like physics gets a vote. It still
gets a vote. Um and we have started on
Yeah. Physics gets a vote?
vote. I mean, we we particularly have
started with hardware testing as the
like narrow kind of wedge that we've
we've built nominal around in in these
sort of early early years um because
that is where uh software-defined
hardware is like touching reality for
the first time. And I think it is where
most of the it's the tip of the spear
for how software is going to impact the
you know, physical AI and the
development of systems. Um eventually I
think we will we will spread more and
more into the simulation and in design
world. But um I think being able to like
merge those two is actually where the
advantage comes from. But Yeah, I was
going to say part of the reason our
customers have an appetite to partner
with someone like Nominal is cuz you
know, these hardware organizations 25 or
30 years ago were
um they developed a model of solving
these things in kind of a fragmented
way. So the people who are building your
simulation would be different than the
people who were doing the first
prototype would be different than the
people who are doing the manufacturing.
……（中部抽样）……
And as it all becomes more connected, uh
for 30 years has become like a
the lengths that they've gone to, um you
expecting nowadays, you have to make
that they're building in a tool like
Before you guys started Nominal, what
product? Well, so SpaceX is really
hardworking engineers on the planet, and
wasn't good enough, and they started to
eventual success." Like, it actually led
build a platform like that. So, that's
think this this sort of status quo in
development, data is, uh, almost by
like common.
know, insert other parsing or analysis,
engineer. Like, we're all doing our work
screenshot. Um so so PDFs, PowerPoint
like the early days of of nominal. We we
sound data engineering, like Jason often
our users. Um and then now we're on a
frontier. Yeah. How much are you
adopting AI? How much are you educating
hardware
to using AI. So like, as someone who
tests that I ran and is relevant to the
needs to be solved. And the you know,
it in-house themselves and want to
sort of across the table is like this
world of like data acquisition systems,
life. Um and and such a small percentage
basic step. Um it used to be
think the building blocks um to getting
in a lot of the way that we catalog this
because sometimes it's you know, asking
that are each producing a million points
some of it's also going to just
users every week they want to automate,
testing at a remote location. There's a
they don't want to learn, you know, a
thing that like unlocks them to actually
mentioned the GitHub analogy earlier. If
there's the manufacturing of the thing,
mentioned it's like it's one of the only
testing been neglected today? Yeah, I
record. I mean, one way to frame Nominal
reason I think for starting with it,
of this like mantra in in hardware
minutes and hours, and like that's real
who's been on a major hardware program
can halt programs. Um and so like
is uh by definition iterative. Like that
it's it's iterative in nature, which is
development life cycle, testing is a
platform in testing, I develop all of
dispersed in an organization to the
validation logic uh essentially. And
becomes like the authoring hub of all
who are software engineers, I just want
software background. You know, when I
of like end-to-end or production level
involves there's a physical machine,
you know, it actually becomes closer to
seem like you know, where the rubber
what an interesting data set you're
actually perform in tests. And so can
already in use, you know, with companies
and where Nominal where we started to be
sort of like
Nominal it turns out I think that we are
am I collecting good data to then inform
there could be issues with the servo,
is sort of running in the background
percentage of data did we have like
you can extract those pieces of data to
we're we're getting more and more
see it as a differentiated capability
nominal, I think the ability for us to
there's like the the verification
agent, so to speak. Yeah. Yeah, I mean
gotten so good in the world of coding is
necessary to build, you know,
most companies have separate hardware
house only, both sides of the house?
uh no pun [laughter] intended but we see
systems. But there's a manufacturing
that digital thread could start at a
lot of uh
a customer-facing team. So, fleet
three different teams and three
spans all three of those use cases and
externally. And so, being able to have
team, they can quickly triage it. And
the way back. Like, I think um that's a
understand like, where did this part
building. So, if you're building an
have enough budget, time, resources. And
software.
from scratch?
vertical lift airplanes.
engineer, like come work on Nominal."
code an airplane.
that's like such a microcosm of saying
able to like vibe code hardware, but a
sets to do hardware AI research?" Like a
focused.
the contexts on how something was made,
I was talking to someone this week
really valuable data set to collect and
the bang for a buck wouldn't be there.
I'm excited to see what's unlocked by
a lot of the modeling and simulation
it's
that we're doing some pretty frontier
projects agency on this really cool
it wasn't a lot of acronyms, but
for
my system needs to be between you know,
the course of years. What this effort is
recommend the next best sort of test
one discrete deterministic test point
sort of again, real-time or faster than
gradient curve where I am sort of like
of like what the world is. Um that's
earlier design phases again, but I think
government on this where like they have
on the use of AI or not advanced? Yeah,
used to be um AI used to be sort of a a
mission-critical applications. You don't
really good for a lot of like front-end,
you know, things our team will like
some sort of, you know, skepticism, but
Um the sort of collaborative combat uh
I'm I'm inspired by
it, then
in that process could be accelerated.
the data analyzed, if you the electrical
about like, okay, how do I take these
the VP can understand.
they can disseminate it or you know, and
like accelerate all of that.
involved in the testing and validating
world where one human can sort of be
we've already built really, really
like, "Hey, plot the kinematics of the
light up when that's just a task that is
we're trying to build um, one way to
masters, PhDs like enriching this data
were to, you know, zoom out to AI
much has changed even just the last 3
we're probably not humble enough about
you know, I think we could have twice as
was like uh,
very obscure stats like oh, if this
to our our customers, you know, one of
that leads to is someone notices
you know,
Um
uh agents kind of like monitoring almost
last 50 times you've done this, it's out
uh you know, hardware company of the
is going to be
are like the pendulum is going to swing
from a data perspective. Um and so, I
these these models. I think it's very
minimizing the amount of real-world
development, like optimizing each of
space with like, you know, agentic
pre-simulate everything, and then run
think to get there, there's going to be
outputs.
It's just a video game. But, if you had
……（接近结尾）……
model and say let's strip out all the
things you don't need from that from
that F-18? Yeah. I mean, I'm sure I
don't actually I don't know this to be
true, but I
I've talked to some pretty emboldened
people that I think are
trying to do that type of like work by
example. I think to to showcase. And I
think that fits, you know, in line with
some of the efforts that we are working
with um
as much as we talked about what the
status quo tools are, there are people
pushing the frontier there right now
both at, you know, the primes and other
places.
You both graduated from MIT.
What Why would a person graduating from
MIT Why should they join Nominal?
Mhm.
talked about 20 years of SaaS-ification
and one of the things I'm really
passionate about right now is just that,
you know, for our customers' use cases,
like the running of software, like you
have to think about the laws of physics.
Like physics gets a vote not just in did
this hardware system work or not, but if
you have a scale of data that is too
expensive to ship to AWS, and that's net
like crunching that data is necessary to
determine do your physical system work
or not, you have to just like operate
with a set of like software and
computing principles that a lot of
people have moved away from. But, you
know, I think if we're really, you know,
ambitious, like it sounds like this room
is about like where physical AI is going
to go in the next 10 or 20 years, like a
lot of people are going to spend a lot
of time thinking about their problems.
So, Nominal's, you know, I I think we're
on the leading edge of like where, you
know, software engineers are going to
disproportionately be spending time in
the next decade.
Are you guys ever going to build
hardware yourself? I think yes. I think
No, I'll just give my take on Karen
smiling already, but
we shouldn't like play all of our cards,
but
the supply chain of hardware data is
like really what we spend a lot of time
thinking about. So, you have the you
know, the source of the data would be a
sensor and then it goes all the way to
you know, you're crunching it, you're
giving these reports to people who can
actually apply their human judgment to
is it safe to launch the satellite. Um
Now,
how do you get better and better at like
managing that supply chain? It's like
probably by touching every part of it. I
always say that we have to like earn the
right to capture data. Like we have to
make our users' lives better. We can't
just say like hey, you have to use this
tool because it gets the data cataloged
in the right way. We say like hey, you
should use this tool cuz it will
actually
you know, it'll shave an hour off your
day. Oh, by the way, it also catalogs
your data in a way that's like or like
organizationally beneficial. And when I
think about those workflows and like
pulling the thread all the way, how do
you reduce the number of steps involved
in this person's uh you know,
labor, it eventually gets to hardware.
I was smiling um
just cuz I Jason said yeah, I don't want
to play all the cards, but um it's
something that I
I think is going to be happening sooner
than later. So.
Our partner Shawn would be beaming right
now. He constantly reminds us that
hardware is the only moat. And not only
do you guys sell to hardware companies,
it sounds like there might be some
interesting things up your sleeve.
there. Um and yeah,
um we're further along there than than
we might be letting on. So. Wonderful.
Well, I think it's an incredibly
exciting time for the fit for hardware,
for the physical world, for physical AI.
And um it's inspiring to see you all
build a company around it and you know,
build the the GitHub equivalents that's
going to just radically transform the
professionalism, the reliability, the
speed of all the engineers who are now
inspired and galvanized to go off to
space. So, congratulations to you all on
on what you've done and excited to see
what you continue to build. Thanks so
much. We say all systems nominal. All
systems nominal.