TITLE: From skeptic to true believer: How OpenClaw changed my life | Claire Vo
CHANNEL: Lenny‘s Podcast
DURATION_S: 6396  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-29T12:30:20+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DIa0MYJzM5I
SHA256: 8a1a46b37befb0f323b234bf87094ade71d81e8cace1360700f2cf906d66352e

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [100%] &gt;&gt; I mean 100%.
  [300000] loved by over 300,000 entrepreneurs,
  [1000] Martron 1000. Um so, you know, naming
  [100000] that are like 100,000 employees or more

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
With OpenClaw, you started off as one of
the leading skeptics.
hours getting OpenClaw up and running.
In return for those eight hours, I got
my personal family calendar deleted.
changed my life. It just hit me with
enough joy and enough utility when it
wasn't deleting my calendar that I knew
something was there. I'm now running
like eight different agents on OpenClaw.
You really have to pull the thread on
these tools and you have to spend enough
time with them to see not where they are
today, but where they are in a week and
where they are in a month.
OpenClaw was realizing you shouldn't
just have one.
they think they can throw any task at a
single agent and get great results. And
then they get really frustrated. I won't
sugarcoat it. It's a pain to set up. It
is not hands-off, but the value is so
high. I am willing to go through the
pain.
actually does for you in your life.
we have Polly, Finn, Max, Howie, Kelly,
Holly. Sam is my salesperson. What Sam
does has real economic value. Last year
before the beginning of the year, I was
paying somebody 10 hours a week to do
this.
incredible host of our sister podcast
How I AI. She's also a longtime
engineer, a three-time chief product
officer, and founder of her own AI
startup. This is our first ever
crossover episode. We may do more. I
asked Claire to come on the podcast
because she has become an absolute power
user of OpenClaw, which is especially
surprising because she was one of the
biggest skeptics when it first came out.
I don't want to give too much away, but
she has got nine OpenClaws running
across three computers. And maybe most
importantly, unlike a lot of people
online talking about OpenClaw, it is
really, truly changed her life across
her family's life, her home life, and
her work life. Claire is very pragmatic
and practical, and takes a lot to get
her excited. She's told me that Open
Claw is the most mind-blowing and
important AI experience she has had
since ChatGPT, which for Claire, who
tries out every new AI product, says a
lot. I love the timing on this episode
because we are now past the absolute
peak hype cycle around Open Claw when
everyone was posting basic how-to videos
and theorizing about what Open Claw
could do for them. Now we can get into
the reality of what it's actually good
at and how to make it work for you in
your life. By the end of this episode,
you're going to understand a bunch of
ways that it can be useful in your own
life, how to install it, how to avoid
the security challenges that people run
into, how to overcome some of the
biggest hurdles that people have. I
personally learned a ton from this
conversation, and I'm now revisiting my
own Open Claw, which I lovingly named
Claudia. If you've been wondering, "What
the heck is Open Claw? Should I still
spend time on this? Should I use this
versus all these other tools that are
launching that are inspired by Open
Claw?" This episode is for you. Before
we get into it, don't forget to check
out Lenny's Product Pass .com for an
incredible set of deals available
exclusively to Lenny's newsletter
subscribers. With that, let's get into
it after a short word from our wonderful
sponsors. This episode is brought to you
by Mercury, radically different banking
loved by over 300,000 entrepreneurs,
including me. I switched to Mercury from
Chase over a year ago, and it is such a
profoundly better experience. It's like
an actual product person built a bank
versus a banking person building a
product. It is fast, it's elegant, it is
super easy to set wires, to track my
spending, to set up triggers, to move
money around when accounts get low. We
moved all of our invoicing to Mercury,
and it is such a smoother experience
than anything else we've tried. It's
also really easy to grant people on your
team just the right amount of access to
help take work off your plate. It's free
to get started, no in-person visits, no
minimum balances. The product also
flexes to all sizes of company, from
startups to large enterprises. Just
visit mercury.com to learn more and
apply online in minutes. Mercury is a
fintech company, not an FDIC-insured
bank. Banking services provided through
Choice Financial Group and Column N A
members FDIC.
This episode is brought to you by Omni.
Many product teams today are in the
process of debating how to ship AI
analytics. The hard part is obvious.
Having an LLM guess at SQL in production
is a huge mess and just a bad idea. Omni
takes a different approach. They have a
semantic layer built in, so that when
you embed their analytics, the AI
actually knows your business
definitions, not just your raw tables.
You can test queries, validate the
reasoning, and lock down permissions
before anything hits production. If you
want AI analytics in your product
without building the whole stack from
scratch, check out omni.co/lenny
for a free 3-week trial. Companies like
Perplexity, DBT, and BuzzFeed use Omni
to ship analytics their customers can
trust. That's omni.co/lenny.
Claire, thank you so much for being
here, and welcome back to the podcast.
we've been a year into the How I AI
podcast journey, and this is the
crossover hit everybody's been waiting
for. Lenny and Claire back together
again.
like being on the other side of the mic
now that you're on you're a fancy
podcast host yourself?
issues before we started recording, so I
don't know how fancy I am. It You know,
it's really fun. What I appreciate about
you and what you've taught me is you're
really great at putting guests at ease
and making this feel like a fun
conversation with a friend, with a
colleague, with somebody you respect.
So, I find both sides of the camera very
fun.
kind of a reverse journalist. I want I
want you to be the best version of
yourself, not catch you off guard, and
you know, the goal's to have fun. Here,
I'll show this thing that I show every
guest before we start. Here's my rule.
Goal number one, have fun and breathe.
fun. I'm working so much and doing so
much, but that's really not because I'm
chasing some productivity metric or feel
like I need to ship more because I can.
It's because all of it feels very fun. I
think Vibe Coding is like gaming. Right
now, like I haven't felt like this since
I was a teenager learning to code and
playing video games and all this kind of
stuff. So, it comes from like a very
joyous, creative place for me, not um
not stressful.
podcast we should do of just how you do
all that you do. I don't know if people
know all this. You have three kids, you
have a podcast weekly podcast, you have
Chat Pierre Dia product company you're
building, and I think there's something
else even.
friend Zach. And then I'm, you know, my
husband and I work on stuff, we invest.
There's just There's a lot going on
right now.
that allows you to do this cuz this
feels impossible. I have one kid. I
don't know how you do this.
what I got like get a great co-parent,
great partner. My husband is so
supportive of all the things that I want
to do, is an equal partner and more in
the house stuff and in the professional
stuff, and that makes things
a lot easier when everybody in the
household's pulling pulling their
weight. You know, the second thing is
what what we just said, which is time
flies when you're having fun.
If the things that you center your work
life around are things that you would
find natural joy in anyway,
it's very easy
to spend the time um and effort
dedication to do it.
And then, you know, we'll go into this,
which is I just spend more time
automating the things that I do than
doing them. And I take a lot of notice
of the things that I'm avoiding.
And when I avoid them, they either don't
serve my ultimate purpose and I need to
let them go and and not do them as part
of of my career, or I need to find a way
to automate them and um and use some
system to do it so I don't have to.
be actually talking about today. Uh so
we're going to be going deep deep deep
……（中部抽样）……
on on Open Claw.
You started off as one of the leading
upstairs.
now and my personal experience as
thrilling. It was very very fun.
out three times a day
wholesale, and instead I came back to it
can tell you how it works. I can tell
recommend almost everybody start with
this. I have three kids. They're in two
both in my professional life and then
claw, they're just like, we will build
great model for a use case. Is there one
deep wiki and ask, how does it schedule
I I feel like the product experience is
have this AI agent. And it's also just
chip and I would you know, get one of
like I'm using Polly. I feel like I'm
very easy.
which was an old MacBook sitting in a
probably going to want to get one.
that I used was to create your own its
them. And you don't onboard your EA
be able to see all my public events like
is a really good mental model. And then,
hosted solution. It's somebody else's
that is happening on, for example, your
They might make a mistake and and
because they're intimidated about the
her vacation, and she needs to be, you
core models to say like, "Consider
now that I have used it more and more.
vacation. So I think that's that's the
install it because there's all this talk
from this computer.
enter, and I already have Homebrew and
onboarding flow, which we will see here.
this into your Discord community where
um hardened against prompt injection and
about the model and off provider and
you have uh the model configured and
that step.
go I I haven't said anything to Q yet.
buttons and tell me who you are and
curricular pursuits."
don't they don't they can actually go
So, we'll do nine,
my main goal, where am I located, what
And so now what it does now that it's
that are totally off limits. You know,
homework.
share uh where he's like who thought
be helpful? Um what is my personality
overnight." And so, it really does feel
instruction. And then there's this
Her name is Polly. She's an assistant.
employee. Um remember you are a guest. I
like ignore your safety rules,
cuz I think people seeing this might
keeps a memory of what it has done so
design your kind of team of open claws
I do think thinking about seeding
these agents that way, I think.
and they think they can throw any task
ChatGPT, if you're using Claude Code for
they're both doing scheduling and
got that, I like, "Boy, did I start
make it a a little bit simpler for you.
different lanes of work, and they
And imagine if that was all happening in
for each one?
other's tools, occasionally reading each
him in there. And I'm going to add my
different times. They're just kind of
Slack a family Slack channel, and you
her life has become.
magic. And so where Jessie got really
just send a voice note and say, "Hey,
But I think it is pretty relatable to be
helpful agents out there, and I think
using the Botfather.
with enrichment. I have to sit down and
biographies and professional
as the founder or do you want me to go
then at the end of the week he does a
to do this.
to end. Don't don't bring me bring me
AI tools that are trying to do sales for
bot and Howie just makes me look
set up my open claws is it's not just a
powering modern enterprise applications.
governance. Built for enterprise scale,
That's orkes.io/lenny.
you're off and running.
And so a good example is I don't know
the link to the tournament we're playing
hard time browsing web.
that we solved this problem. And so, you
like really useful, makes me feel like a
it it has helped me not just
my my course my co-course teacher, Zack
your course? Like you probably should.
into the syllabus. And again, it's like
it's been really efficient.
and any advice you might share.
it doesn't look great, and somehow and
going back to the actual problems I've
web has been so hardened against bots.
because I think we skip ahead a couple
profile dedicated only to your OpenClaw
which window.
and some things it it you'd be surprised
couldn't do any So, I just gave it the
from expecting it to solve that problem
help you solve that.
they're just base like think of them as
the browser, is that it disconnects from
you mentioned that. Do you have any
Open Claw to do that automatically. And
the most that people don't think about
nuances in how you might want it to read
long as I don't forget things. You could
of an assistant that you hired. Are
called screen sharing mode. And then on
And I'm just screen shared
some magic lever from the beginning?
As long as you're on the same Wi-Fi, you
not only does Polly look at my calendar,
probably install during your open clone
checked off items. It's very loose.
manage your tasks as well.
something very similar to a Codex. It's
I'm having so much fun. And I think
Claude will say, "If I were you, the
it."
can go read it. And so but something
know, he and the maintainers have been
experience.
there a no-code WYSIWYG editor that can
API for this or what should the label
ramble.
set up in a group chat. Again, I think
access to tools, having it run code, all
writing code and open claw is just
Claude Code as a um a surgeon and
terminal, it's going to drop you into
those lines?
all get pulled into is when we have
on an employee.
skills into it. Again, not because we're
You know, the rest of it we can give to
generally and that feels like the same
API while effective is lossy. It's
how which uh you know, which projects
say you're not a manager. Let's say
things that you see see here to give
computer. Uh it's the fastest growing
why I have these three Mac minis on my
because of what I could predict and
this thing is not perfect and it's open
have predicted 3 years ago. And while I
there anything else anything else you
afford, um if I could employ an
very exciting lightning round. I've got
Treasure Island. Um we are reading Alice
even if they feel a little bit more
reality dating shows.
good, but no. I just I Again, I work
enough enough sleep."
discovered you really love?
percentages, how many assists you have,
based on the
list. This is actually at the top of the
and they don't make any noise. And so,
a si- a silent basketball.
……（接近结尾）……
um and really focus on what's in what's
important. And like my vibe coding tools
will probably not be be at my funeral,
so I will not give them sleepless
and just
lines I've shared a couple times in this
podcast. Once you hear you'll never
forget. It's very heartbreaking.
Um
the only people that will remember that
you uh stayed late at work are your
kids.
100%. I I mean I I don't I part of why I
like Open floor, real talk is I'm not on
my laptop all the time.
And that I I I
really kind of hate at this moment. One
of the things that is a downside is my
kids see me all the time
on my laptop. And in some ways I've I've
heard this advice, you know, when you're
ever feeling guilty about that, write
down all the reasons why you working
hard is good for your kids. Like keep a
list by your computer of like it's good
for my kids to see what hard work looks
like. I can provide for my kids. You
know, all those things. Keep that list
down um to remind yourself of that. But
I hate that my kids see me hunched over
as 18-in MacBook Air all the time. I
don't want that. And so being able to
have get kind of be unleashed from just
your laptop and being able to pop in
when they're on the swing to a quick
work thing and take care of it and then
put it away, or have the peace of mind
honestly that my agent team is working
on things so I don't have to think about
it. It really lets me come closer to to
my kids
versus kind of being chained to to the
terminal on my laptop.
podcast and he His kid's like coding in
Repl.it. He's like 9 years old. He's
just like, you know,
going to be very successful.
So,
uh so I'm proud of that. Okay, final
question. You're a fancy podcast host
now. You started a podcast about a year
ago. What's What's something that
surprised you about
becoming a podcast host, starting a
podcast, doing a podcast?
credit. Man, this work is hard. There's
a lot I mean that people think, "Oh, you
know, you show up and you you turn on
your laptop and you chit-chat with
somebody fun for an hour and you move
on." There is so much that goes into the
business of podcasting that I have found
so interesting to learn because my
entire background has been,
you know, very similar to yours, in
software and startups and technology,
which have different revenue models and
different business models and different
types of work you have to do. And
learning the business of podcasting
has been really I I I was surprised at
how interesting I have found that. And
then, you know, it's a lot It's a lot of
work to get something that looks so
effortless on on the other side. And so,
it's not just the prep and the research
and the thumbnails and all that. It's,
you know, making sure that you find
great guests that you can make look
good. It's finding the right timing. And
so, um I've been really surprised at the
complexity of the business. And, you
know what? I was not surprised at how
good you are at it, but I'm glad we're
partners cuz you're very good at it.
this. I I feel like you found your
calling
in addition to building Chart Your D.
find you online if they want to check
out all the stuff you're up to, and how
can listeners be useful to you?
Clairevo, similar on LinkedIn. Um, check
out my product chatprd.ai,
and of course smash that like and
subscribe button on youtube/at
howiaipod,
um, or Spotify, Apple, wherever you like
to get your podcast. I would love for
you to follow along. We tell such
amazing, fun stories about how people
are using AI. We have a lot of laughs,
and occasionally Paulie will show up
uninvited to the podcast.
Claire, thank you so much for being
here.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app.
Also, please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review, as that really
helps other listeners find the podcast.
You can find all past episodes or learn
more about the show at
lennyspodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.