TITLE: The World's Greatest Energy Trader on Markets, China, and AI
CHANNEL: Invest Like The Best
DURATION_S: 4979  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-04T13:01:32+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oB1nMi7t-uo
SHA256: 5e29738e168d67287a813e5d110688efe5d5a507fb27a16df859fc4655272928

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [85%] 85% of expense reviews with 99%
  [99%] 85% of expense reviews with 99%
  [5%] 5%, it's no wonder that Shopify runs on
  [20%] me and the 20%. All right, I was getting
  [2030] uh, kind of 2030
  [2020] happened around 2020 and it's the cost
  [50%] is, you know, probably 50% plus more
  [2019] just in you know, since 2019. The number
  [70%] down 70%. I talked to a couple expats
  [75%] of western expats was down 50 to 75% the
  [90%] there is down 90%
  [1995] there when I was 21 years old in 1995.
  [2001] It went bankrupt in late 2001.
  [1970] gas lines in the 1970s or, you know,
  [100%] &gt;&gt; 100%. Yeah. Um, you know, not only is it
  [2000] 2000s kind of gave up. They started
  [2024] finished I think in 2024.
  [9000] uh Vogal had 9,000

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
My guest today is John Arnold. John is
probably the most famous energy trader
of all time and certainly the most
successful. One of the things John says
was that he wanted to cultivate and
build the best seat in his industry. The
seat with the best perspective, with the
most information, with the best systems.
What's most interesting about John,
after being the most successful energy
trader of all time, you could argue that
he's gone on to be the most innovative
philanthropist as well. John has applied
this idea of philanthropy to all
different sectors and what's so exciting
about this conversation is it feels like
you're talking to a talented
entrepreneur or a talented operator in
all of these different fields who's
willing to share exactly what him and
his team have learned about what makes
certain problems [music] manifest across
our country. He has an incredible
perspective not just on the things he's
worked on but on his travels, on
companies, on technology. This
conversation is a reminder to me that
cultivating the seat is such a powerful
concept that we probably under invest
in. Please enjoy this wide-ranging
discussion with John [music] Arnold.
Everyone listening I think is somewhat
interested in what's going on in China.
Your lessons that you shared were so
interesting and I'd love you to just
share some of the highlights from that
trip and what you learned traipsing
around, studying robotics, studying AI,
everything else that you did. What were
your major takeaways from that trip?
this realization that China's gone
through this transformation unlike any
other that's happened in the world of
both economic and cultural in the course
of 30 years. This is a country that has
gone from you're really trying to
replicate the West to in many ways
leapfrogging it. I was fortunate enough
to spend a week running around, met with
four or five companies a day that were
all very open and kind of got to tour
factories and it was really striking. I
came away incredibly impressed and also
with a lot of questions about what
happens to the rest of the world as the
as this rise of China is happening. The
one big takeaway was just the speed and
scale of which they can do things is
unlike anything in the world. They have
this highly educated population. It's a
very entrepreneurial culture. They've
figured out how to get capital to these
companies.
And they have this deep domestic market.
And so it allows them
to
um kind of build up these supply chains
and agglomeration effects
to create something that I don't think
exists in the rest of the world where I
were talking to a battery company and
asking them are they looking at
replicating factories elsewhere in the
world, and one of their responses was
every one of my suppliers is within 200
miles of here, and I can call them and
meet with them same day.
And you can just can never get that.
And then kind of the scale of labor that
they have and the flexibility. If you
need a thousand workers tomorrow,
you can get that. And again, it is a
skilled workforce that's still very
hungry, that's coming often times from
poverty. And so having this factory job,
which in the West might not look very
appealing, right? For many people in
China, it is highly appealing, right?
It's just kind of the first step up.
And so this combination of things has
allowed them
really to create
this competitive force that the world is
suddenly reckoning with over the past
decade. And it's really interesting to
think about kind of what's the right
response from Western countries, um
you know, that don't want to cede their
markets to China for obvious reasons. Um
but there's there's a lot that China can
offer and so what's the right symbiotic
relationship that the West should be
having with China? I think is this
massive question that
policymakers are grappling with and I
wanted to try to dig into. Which company
visit was the most illustrative of these
big lessons? What was the company visit
that looking back on the trip taught you
the most? I've been fascinated with the
EV market in China, which kind of about
10 years ago was deemed to be a
strategic market.
And you know, the way that the story is
told is that China realized that they
were behind on ICE cars and we're always
be playing catch-up and that if they
could leapfrog to the next technology,
then they could have an advantage on the
rest of the world.
And so right now there's
apparently over 100 different
manufacturers of
EVs in China. Now many of these are
have a contract manufacturer and so you
can send in your design and do your
branding
independently of the manufacturing. But
there's many manufacturers there who
actually have their own plants. So we
went to this one for NIO, which is kind
of the upscale Chinese car that's kind
of in the 40 to 80 thousand dollar
range, although they've recently
released one that's below 10 thousand
dollars. Wow. Going to their factory and
seeing number one how quickly that
factory is built. So they went from you
know, the first shovel in the ground to
the first car coming off the line in 17
months, which was just phenomenal.
And then second, the factory automation
that that they had. And there were
certainly people on the assembly line,
but much of the process
was done via robotics. And you
you know, start looking at what are the
plants that we have the auto plants we
have in the United States. We still have
a plant that was originally built 100
years ago operating outside of Chicago.
Um kind of average age of US plant a
little hard to get, but we kind of
roughly 40 years. Now, they've been
upgraded over time and you know, there
are certainly robotics in American car
manufacturing, but I don't think they
replicate what's happening with robotics
in China. And so they have this
combination of being able to do things
really quickly
with a skilled but low-cost labor force
and then add on the robotics has just
allowed China to
create a quality product at a price that
nobody in the rest of the world has
really been able to figure out yet. Do
you know anything about robotics or AI
that just that surprised you? The number
of robotics companies, there's
over 100 now in China. As I understand
the process, each five-year plan China
specifies certain industries that are
deemed strategic.
And then the head of the province gets
evaluated on a number of factors. You
know, the head of the province is
selected and not voted on. And so
the evaluation is based on things like
employment and GDP growth, but then also
are the industries that are being
created there aligned with the five-year
plan?
And there are also some subsidies coming
down from top on those favored
industries. And so robotics is certainly
one of them.
So then each province takes a couple
companies that it favors and gives them
subsidies and supports
to try to get the winner or one of the
winners to be in their province and then
get the supply chain to develop around
them and then all the associated jobs
and GDP.
And so you get this massive competition
that happens. One of the end results is
that
most of these companies aren't very
profitable today because there's just
intense competition and a lot of times
over capacity
because of the province level subsidies
and supports, but it also creates kind
of uh
yeah, this intense competition which is
a term involution
for it also creates better technology,
right? If you're faced with that type of
competition
to be one of the winners, you have to be
fantastic.
Now, I think the question that China has
is what do you do with those who are not
the winners? And do you have a process
where the losers stay in the industry
and keep kind of everybody unprofitable
with the overcapacity
or are they closed? And so China has you
know, started this new process of
anti-involution of like trying to
support the winners
and make sure that they can build up to
be healthy, strong companies and be
really global competitors and not just
kind of brought down by this
……（中部抽样）……
overcapacity in the domestic market.
towards us? It seems sort of
of flights between the two countries is
the ways to do that was to bring over
Those learnings are now domestic
the West coming to teach us things.
85% of expense reviews with 99%
designed to support how Wall Street
third, it runs end-to-end and produces
learn more, visit rogo.ai/invest.
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
some of the world's great traders
were at I'm curious when you thought
think or what I want my kids to do. One
there from kind of 6:00 in the morning
thinking about it.
Uh I think there's also some downside.
one thing and being so deeply
on it, what does it take to be number
to figure out what to do.
hedge fund two and 20 structure.
returns early on. And so that did two
down month or a down time period, which
people in the business that I knew of.
about setting up the best like
fundamentals team that's the best in the
business starts to work and you have you
come up with proprietary data sources,
think that's right. Can you tell me
were, maybe where a chip on your
kind of have limited options and
baseball cards. It was when it was
uniform across the market, that there
effect. You know, you'd have people in
know, are willing to pay X and I can buy
was 16 and going to
in in sports cards and I was taking
else did and I would do that, you know,
trading? Like when you were trying to
enjoyed, but what were you literally
gas in Pennsylvania or in West Texas or
know, has a gas price, that's what I was
uh it allowed uh ability to put on and
their thinking was, which helped me in
financial market exists for a reason.
for that risk management.
just to the spot price or kind of
hedging.
come in. The people who are warehousing
view on
centers and AI and the the the new
years ago when it seemed a little bit
the amount of money and capital that's
characteristics of the energy industry
describing the industry today to someone
and you know, what the incentives are,
blackouts, right, when reliability
And then, okay, you know, if you if you
um and wind and thinking about
the priority or the ranking of those
you know, every four or eight years gets
of of energy that we've seen in this
be that are different than how it is
what would be the worst scenario that
And, you know, on US innovation, you
not only desire but demand.
And so you can start to see kind of if
in the US, how lasting it feels to you?
uh, kind of 2030
you know, have the financial capability
And what about our ability to meet that
transportation and housing and energy
courts.
the projects that are good, that are
development of the United States.
you know,
a good narrative, but it's true. If
where does this whole thing break down?
could imagine, you know, in 5, 10 years'
interregional transmission lines because
system, right? It can reduce costs, it
2000s kind of gave up. They started
are multiple veto points along the way.
faster and more efficiently in the
bipartisan legislation that happens
have prioritized goals in different
of the the latest of the in a
Um
highly skilled craftsmen.
or through fusion. And I think the
Um I think the greater question is what
Um optimally, it is, you know, the
started construction on some of this. I
scales up, everything gets more complex,
reason that Ramp, Cursor, and Snowflake
complexity, more headcount, and more
of the curve. See what Ridgeline can
that have gone in
business. I'm surprised at how much
money that has to be raised for it
economics are going to be,
imagine as an investor when funding
cool and interesting. I'm curious what
Mostly in China. keeps getting cheaper,
of those are inflationary, right? The
cost of solar panel and usually whenever
again of delivered electrons from solar
getting at a smaller and smaller
automation, factory automation or
so we've seen a tremendous amount of
exhausted the demand during the sunny
with solar will start happening with
lithium prices, for instance, just in
for granted these falling cost curves,
and the buildout of data centers.
So it remains to be seen how good an
still very early in this industry. Um
work to do to scale this.
uh get to the project finance market in
see kind of in 5 years that the
or yes in my backyard, as a combatant to
uh pushback against all of that.
And I think politicians are now
housing? What are you doing to reduce
house. And so, you know, you can't do
besides just big subsidies. Right? That
in during my term.
carefully and been in really involved
curious why you think that. So, yeah,
your
might be economic risks.
I think organizations become
philanthropy
Uh it requires
And they know that if I give a dollar
system or the criminal justice system or
and
progress do you think needs to be made
evidence that was used as part of the
really looking at and know, what was
more and more into criminal justice
principles um
of known for years that what's more
caught or not? And then there was, you
help them think about that. And you
threat to others?
worked with a number of states, both
was looking at it when we got started um
things that distinguishes us is we
social justice and racial equity are
justice or racial equity, but there
probability is low so you let him go and
as the number one lever in the system? I
that you know, communities don't want to
then then if what's the solution? And I
and different communities are going to
drones and you're just everything's
expense of security. And I think there's
this broad rethink now about kind of
uh useful or interesting relationship
outcomes.
States has been struggling with for
Almost every country around the world,
promising in some of the early results.
think there's promise in Alpha School.
of an EdTech platform,
the equivalent of the solar panel? Like
been. And we can all probably think back
screen
before. And so I I think there's promise
being health care and journalism, uh
GLP-1 seem to be sort of a a modern
system. And that's really driven up
textbooks. You know, thinking about,
and that requires
you know,
to seek and find out where's
there's, um, not history of the halos,
you know,
you know,
in health care, but in all of these
……（接近结尾）……
community. You get to see so many parts
of the system probably more than almost
anyone I've ever talked to.
What has you the most excited about the
world? Innovation.
It's very easy to get pessimistic. It's
very easy to talk about the problems, to
talk about the debt and deficit and all
our political dysfunction.
Um and then you kind of step back and
look at what
this country's gone through
since its formation and the number of
challenges it's faced and that it's been
so robust in being able to overcome
those challenges historically.
many have provided and created over the
years and how that's improved quality of
life for us and I think that's what we
have to trust and have faith in will
continue to do so in the future.
When I do these interviews, I always ask
everyone the same traditional closing
question. What is the kindest thing that
anyone's ever done for you? When I was
really deep into trading and about how
it kind of created some unhealthy habits
and started to change me. At one point
my brother pulled me aside and just said
like you've changed and not for the
better. Took courage on his part to do
and
and I think it caused me to step back
and think about did I agree with that or
not and if of course like the the first
instinct is to say no, you're wrong and
then you know, that thought lingers and
you know, start trying to see yourself
as a third person would.
Um and
and I started to think like
you know,
maybe he's right and what do I need to
change in my life and you know, try to
make these other parts of my life
besides the business
make the other parts of my life, you
know, high performing as well. I love
the closing idea that saying something
hard to someone you care about can be a
great kindness. A cool and unique
answer, John. Thank you so much for your
time.
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back using
AI to automate 85% of expense reviews
with 99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves
companies 5%, it's no wonder that
Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs on
Ramp, and my business does, too. To see
what happens when you eliminate the busy
work, check out ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com to see
what they can unlock for your firm.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why. To
achieve enterprise adoption at scale,
you have to deliver on core capabilities
like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs.
That's where WorkOS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
of them on day zero. That's why so many
of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the
fastest way to become enterprise ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit workos.com to get
started. Every investor should know
about Rogo, because Rogo AI's platform
is not just another generic chatbot.
Instead, it was designed to support how
Wall Street bankers and investors
actually work, from sourcing, diligence,
and modeling to turning analysis into
deliverables. For me, three key things
differentiate Rogo. First, it connects
directly to your systems so it can work
with your actual data. Second, it
understands your workflows, how work
really happens across a deal or an
investment. And third, it runs
end-to-end and produces real outputs the
way the best people do. Auditable
spreadsheets, investment memos,
diligence materials, and slide decks
that match your standards. This all
comes from the fact that Rogo is built
by finance professionals for finance
professionals. And it's already being
adopted by some of the most demanding
institutions in the world. To learn
more, visit rogo.ai/invest.