TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/12/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8624  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-12T15:08:26+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lvBlG6bPFYg
SHA256: 81e720ece9a7b92f580d2633fee4264625baac97c92ccf178fd806b026b86f9d

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] a third of 1%. Equities and equity
  [2022] from the federal government. 2022, there
  [5%] around 5% on WTI higher as well up to
  [2%] it is hitting 7 and 1/2% of global oil
  [0.5%] &gt;&gt; Stocks this morning down by 0.5% on the
  [0.4%] Equity futures down by about 0.4% where
  [7%] crude elevated up by more than 7%. So,
  [2020] delivered, right? 2020, we got what we
  [1.4] start of the conflict, around 1.4
  [9%] 9% increase. He said it's inevitable. We
  [1970] just a ghost story from the 1970s. It is
  [30%] crude up by more than 30% so far this
  [101.59] high of the session 101.59
  [10%] up by more than 10% briefly. Here's the
  [96.80] higher by 5% 96.80.
  [91.70] WTI around 91.70 also higher by about
  [0.9] caps, the Russell, -0.9. It's a double
  [3.65] yields at the highs of the year, 3.65 on
  [4.22] twos, on tens about 4.22. And as it
  [0.4] follows. Futures -0.4 on the S&amp;P. On the
  [20%] increased more than 20% in the past less
  [300000] more than 200 300,000 barrels per day.
  [4.6%] crude 9620 and up by 4.6% on the
  [4%] 91, up by more than 4% also. How many
  [2023] going back to 2023. People are starting
  [0.5] S&amp;P 500, down by 0.5 on the Russell.
  [16%] We're about 16% in our analysis of the
  [6%] crude up by close to 6%. We're tracking
  [50%] looks like a 40-50% probability waiting
  [2021] days. Don't forget in 2021-22,
  [2007] echoes here of 2007. And and I I I think
  [6.6%] climbing again this morning by 6.6% on
  [6000] worst-case scenario now is about 6,000
  [0.6%] negative by about 0.6%. Brent crude out
  [1.3] We're down by 1.3. In the commodity
  [119.50] of course of the week 119.50 on Brent.
  [213000] economy continues. We're at 213,000 for
  [90%] and the flows going through that are 90%
  [96.30] &gt;&gt; Brent crude this morning, 96.30. WTI
  [94%] like 93, 94% for all of the incoming

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
There is a systematic upward bias in
equity markets. The market is trying to
look through the valley here. If it's a
one-month shock, the market has to price
in the risk that it might be two months.
terms of the rotation.
structural changes.
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, no end in sight.
The International Energy Agency agreed
to coordinate the release of a record
400 million barrels of oil, which will
substantially reduce the oil prices as
we end this threat to America and this
threat to the world. Crude rallying
despite officials announcing a major
release of strategic reserves. The
tension deepening leaving tankers coming
under fire across the Middle East and
banks telling their Dubai staff to stay
away from the office until further
notice. Brent briefly breaking triple
digits once again. The big question was
why are officials releasing so many
barrels of oil unless they see something
that we don't see. Why are they doing
the biggest release in history? The why
is right here. The International Energy
Agency came out this morning and said
the war in the Middle East is creating
the largest supply disruption in the
history of the global oil market saying
it is hitting 7 and 1/2% of global oil
supply. You have that kind of hit, try
pricing that in. It just means oil price
is higher.
tankers coming under fire. The numbers
keep climbing. Huge fire at a facility
in Oman. The pressure building in places
like Asia. China once again tightening
fuel export curbs. It's headline after
headline.
basically this is just to tide the world
over until you have the conflict
basically ending. But guess what? This
is not enough oil per day. Jeff Currie
as he talked about the flow to tide us
over. If the Strait of Hormuz right now
and the flows going through that are 90%
down, and it's not even just the fact
that it's such a big bazooka of oil,
individuals are concerned about how long
this will last. It's the fact that
you're seeing this. You're seeing seeing
tankers on fires, and the market is
starting to say this is going to be
potentially very prolonged.
pretty calm. Equity futures negative by
a third of 1%. Equities and equity
investors are looking through the pain
at spot, looking out further out along
the futures curve. But, you're starting
to see a rally there at the back end as
well, particularly around the end of
this year. New forecast from Goldman.
Take a listen to this. Fourth quarter
Brent average, $76 a barrel if it's a
30-day disruption. If it extends to 60,
you're talking about a $93 a barrel
average price in the fourth quarter.
That is a major change to the outlook.
shift higher in terms of pricing
expectation expectations the longer this
goes on. Bloomberg Economics putting out
a forecast with 1 month, $105 a barrel.
With 3 months, they're talking $163 a
barrel. So, to your point, to Goldman's
point, the longer this goes on, it's not
necessarily just a linear change. It is
a step change, and it really potentially
could impact the economy.
around 91. Coming up this hour, catch up
with Keith Lerner of Truist with markets
focused on the Middle East. Matt Gerken
of BCA Research as President Trump vows
to finish the job in Iran. And Hordly
Out of Rystad Energy on how crude could
top 130. We begin this hour with our top
story. Fresh attacks on tankers in the
Persian Gulf sending crude higher and
prompting massive evacuations across the
region. Bloomberg's Jamana Al Saeedi
joins us now from Dubai for more.
Jamana, it's day 13, and as you look at
the region at the moment, it's
difficult, I imagine, to say things are
getting better because it looks like
things are getting worse.
That's indeed the situation. And
President Trump saying yesterday that
the strait is in good shape, and
actually the reality on the ground
paints a very different picture. Just in
the last 12 hours, we've seen multiple
developments at key energy
infrastructure sites in and around By
the way, not just the Strait, but around
the broader region, too. Persian Gulf,
two vessels off the coast of Iraq and
that is the northern most northern part
of the Persian Gulf
were targeted. They were set ablaze and
were on fire in the early hours in this
morning causing disruption on export
terminals over there. And then if you go
all the way to the bottom of the Arabian
Peninsula, the Salalah port in Oman,
that's a fuel depot also targeted as
well.
And then throughout the course of the
evening, another export terminal on the
Gulf of Oman, one of the biggest
actually around the Gulf of Oman and a
key export terminal for Oman which
exports 1 million barrels a day, and
they they were also targeted which led
to the evacuation of vessels from the
area. Now, they have said that they have
resumed operations in the last few
hours. But it still just underscores
that not only is the Strait and the
transit through the Strait becoming an
issue, but more broadly the entire
region, the Persian Gulf, the Gulf of
Oman are also increasingly targeted.
Abha then also inflicted got got
targeted once again, their fuel depot
over there. They have halted operations
and then overnight, this has been
happening for several days now. It isn't
getting as much attention because the
projectiles have been intercepted, but
multiple attempts of the Shaybah oil
field in Saudi Arabia being targeted as
well. Saudi Arabia alone intercepted 43
projectiles overnight. So, for all
intents and purposes, the conflict seems
to be expanding. No sign whatsoever that
things are letting up and if anything,
Iran keep going after key logistics and
energy infrastructure hubs in the
region. Jumana, let's finish up by
talking about Dubai. You moved to Dubai
like many other people. Dubai has done
so much to attract international talent.
To see the headlines cross recently from
Goldman, City, Standard Chartered
telling their staff to stay away from
the office. How much has changed where
you are in just a few weeks?
Well, I'm broadcasting from home today
as well. And out of an abundance of
caution, what you're hearing from
financial institutions, including the
ones that you just mentioned, is that
they are advising their employees and
personnel to stay away from the office,
to work from home, continue working from
home for the foreseeable future. Many
institutions have also allowed for
temporary relocation of staff. Again,
out of out of an abundance of caution.
Now, this isn't a formal evacuation
notice, I should say, out of the DIFC.
But, the intensity of strikes over the
UAE has picked up once again. I should
mention that the interception rates has
been extremely high, north of something
like 93, 94% for all of the incoming
ballistic missiles. But, anecdotally, in
the past 16 hours, we have all, as
residents of this country, received
incoming missile alerts.
And just in the past 6 hours, we've
heard of debris causing a significant
amount of damage or um some damage in in
some residential areas. And so, on the
back of that, I think many institutions
around here are erring on the side of
caution. That's not to say there's been
a formal evacuation notice, but
you know, the feeling is very much one
of wait and see how this all evolves.
But, for the time being, again, there
are no signs that things are beginning
to let up. So, better to be safe.
Jumana, stay safe and stay close. We'll
catch up with you in the next hour or
so. The tension in the region, compare
and contrast that with the calm in the
equity market. Equity futures right now,
the S&amp;P down by about a third of 1%.
Here's the view on Wall Street this
morning. Keith Lerner of Truist writes
……（中部抽样）……
in the following, "The bull market still
years, everything the market has gone
right now.
to say, "Hey, should we be adjusting our
policy with response that can be
be China as well. So, I think ultimately
know be thinking about I mean obviously
again if if oil stayed elevated at these
actually relatively attractive after not
market that has been conditioned to take
we'll catch up with Matt Gertken of BCA
budgets as a result of rising gas
Reserve to ease surging energy costs.
any intervention in oil markets amid
barrels per day this month. John,
of Hormuz, according to the Wall Street
that they could save the regime by
population is quite low and they can see
probably one of them. Uh so, Iran
acknowledging that, understanding that,
know that this could create a massive
and its allies and for free countries
cost side? That nation, which is
Russell, we're negative by 0.9.
looks like potentially this is going to
value of certain loans. The tension,
reason why Apollo is saying we're going
take comfort from that given what's
limiting redemptions at its North Haven
the urgency of why. Is this going to
that they couldn't. The Wall Street
the on the duration. And um and as at
made, prices fell by $5 per barrel.
Strait of Hormuz could be reopened
destruction. That that is quite quite
sense of how much more Russia is earning
pumping up more. I think what it means
war ends. Will those waivers expire? At
that option at all right now. The
that are exposed to this story, more
he said, "We don't want to leave early,
week from the high.
They expect either withdrawal from the
can stop this ascent in crude, none. Get
there has been a pretty clear pattern
basis point boost to March headline CPI.
shock, right? And the last supply shock
weaker economy than a lot of people
larger layoffs or at least, you know,
happens pretty quickly where we start to
were seeing prices rise. You would ask
bigger concern. This is what we eat
China, there are no elections, but their
think after a whole month, yeah, you're
next.
S&amp;P 500, down by 0.5 on the Russell.
and energy infrastructure take a hit
hit after hit. And it just slowly turns
Equity futures right now in the S&amp;P
by the way appears to not have a lot of
actually increasing with intensity and
of the day this straight is still
projectiles that have been fired towards
a formal evacuation order from the DIFC.
the cross-section between the East and
tankers and so on we see going through.
couple of months. Goldman is out saying
narrative that had been prevalent
inflationary even if policy makers are
thought it was obvious from a macro
it's a package. It's a narrative that
the narrative. So I think very difficult
some kind of a self-sufficiency.
sir. Jean-Pierre Van der of BlackRock.
would curtail growth, would actually
Policy options are not going to break
leave early, do we? UH
release 172 million barrels from the
It's good to see you.
which is really the issue politically,
know, gone a bit a bit awry. I mean I
oil in June of 2022, um that that
what the US is going to have to or the
supplemental in sort of the $100 billion
is just those are just our two variables
Uh you know, and again people's view of
water was on immigration and that has
overnight 101.59.
it back into US assets. I don't know if
it over from an owner who's had it for
or not or just sentiment, it means more
shows some stabilization, but the thing
what happens on Tinder. No idea. The
IEA effort to discharge a total of 400
chickens out. That's sort of the the
evening saying basically, well, we're
reluctantly. But, it's just that markets
think we can we can use the 1970s to
some extent. I think I may have spoken
Um one of the big differences, John, is
globally because that's a typical
inflation expectation could rise.
mind should be below four. I think a
that people reach for comparisons with
market has has held up pretty well as
risk that it might change elsewhere,
you were talking about the um the uh
risen what almost 30 basis points in
driver of the expansion. And on the flip
by 10. WTI
Both on goods and energy, we have a
we're seeing that, and not just at the
into 2022 with inflation already at 7
market's getting it right and this will
markets, the idea of redemptions and
supposed to It doesn't give you that
will take weeks and not months. Going on
narrow strait and it's going to be
rather, of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
of Hormuz every single day. So, to
Hormuz effectively remains shut. Look at
the story is further out along the
Hormuz. There are other shipping
Richardson of ADP breaking down the
which US officials say will take about 4
ceasefire including that the US and
normal-ish macro cycle and I think the
think that's what's really making uh US
weeks-ish time frame. Um
talking about more of a stackflation
from if the fiscal spaces are really
it's been a funding short of the market.
good, hyperscalers are probably not
we're just going to have need more
happen here in the Middle East. We're
to about 98.30. WTI 93.20. When that
discussing that found that actually much
still is and and there are echoes here
the new supreme leader, any moment from
can resume an accelerated growth trend
to happen within the private credit
also potential return of areas like
it's about a 1.7 trillion globally. And
because that's what we're all looking
you that the structures that they're
Silicon Valley failures, First Republic
affairs, we just finished our 30th
rallied aggressively from there as did
tanker to the Strait of Hormuz which is
once again, and Brent crude not too far
up by 5 and 1/2% suggesting there is
The estimate was 215. Claims have been
suggesting not so much based on the fact
with very weak hiring. They are two
Um that's very different than what the
that are encountering cyclical to any
actually
is hard, especially if you're a small
infrastructure boom. It's retiring right
inflationary pressure. So, I think that
big moves in financial markets, triple
Street. Equities still very close to
attempting a catch-up. On the other side
time to guide you into the opening bell.
28th, since that initial strike on the
that support. There's little doubt that
Supreme Council, what they have
……（接近结尾）……
because they can't really solve for
that. It where it's very difficult. It's
not a CPI measure that is sort of
objective. So, I think they tend to have
more volatility to them. They tend to be
more sticky once they do rise. And so,
avoid avoiding that scenario is is a
best-case scenario for the Fed, which
already is struggling to get inflation
kind of in its, you know, consistently
CPI or PCE, right? It's consistently
significantly above their target. So,
based on what you're looking at, which
is potentially rising long-end yields,
and they already have risen a
significant amount with a backdrop of
already some stress coming through in
the credit markets, how much more risk
needs to be priced in to particularly
lower-rated credit given potential
contagion coming from private credit,
given the fact that there could be some
pressure on the more stressed balance
sheets? Yeah, so the question here and
the keyword here is opacity, right?
There's a lot of opaqueness with respect
to private credit, particularly. We see
what's happening with BDCs. We see
what's happening with retail-driven
private credit exposure. And there are
lots of questions around valuations,
around liquidity, will I be able to get
my money back, is this thing worth what
it actually was? And I want to kind of
bring in maybe a little bit of a
different lens because there are a lot
of questions around how systemic is
this? And of course, we never know ahead
of time because if we did, we'd put
guardrails against it. So, we don't ever
know what's systemic ahead of time. But
one kind of avenue is potentially the
insurers that have increasingly more
exposure to that universe as well. You
know, insurers own something like $2
trillion of
private credit, which comprises 18% of
their overall bond holdings. And that's
not just private, it's it's a
combination of, you know, lending to
middle markets, CLOs, BDCs. So, BDCs are
actually a very small part of their
portfolios, but um
alternative asset manager-owned
um insurers own a significantly larger
component of these things and BDCs
included. So, you do have just more
risk-taking on the part of an industry
that historically has invested in
investment-grade credit, right? And now
is taking more and more risk in high
yield and in illiquid, you know, unrated
or lower-rated credit. So, is that
potentially a channel for a systemic,
you know, disruption of some sort? But,
we'll leave that aside for now. We
definitely believe that this credit
cycle, which is the longest one we've
had really on record, we haven't had a
credit cycle in a decade at this point.
We do think that it is
very ripe for a turnover, that's coming
to an end, and that you are going to see
meaningful repricing, not just in these
structures that, you know, are BDCs or
private loans, but it is going to spill
over into other forms of credit in the
broader markets.
as well. Oxana Aronov there of JP Morgan
Asset Management on the channel for
potential contagion. Getting visibility
on these things is really difficult,
too, because one of the firms we were
talking about overnight, their move to
limit redemptions was essentially a fund
of funds. So, tracking where the money
all is and where the money's being
pulled from is getting harder to do.
Which is part of the problem. And at
what point do people just start
demanding transparency in order to have
confidence to invest? I thought it was
notable that Apollo came out
that we heard, of course, from John Zito
saying, "We're planning to release
pricing every single day cuz guess what?
We're going to show we're not a bad
actor, and we're going to show what you
should be doing." So, you know, watch
for more of the same.
in some way, I'm sure.
higher by 6.6%. Coming up tomorrow,
Jordan Rochester of Mizuho, the Portola
Valley director Jean Seroka, Jill Carey
Hall of Bank of America, and the
Flexport CEO Ryan Patterson. Looking
forward to getting to the weekend as I'm
sure you all are, too. From New York
City this city this morning, good
morning to you all. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.