TITLE: How to bet on yourself (without venture capital)
CHANNEL: Invest Like The Best
DURATION_S: 4633  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-17T12:01:13+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hFIvttHf0oo
SHA256: 49c95fe848ed56515c7d90a5559f684d39e80b2aa12354262c54f76a1d8b22b1

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [100%] that 100% of employees and myself like
  [2000] idea buried in the 2,000 pages that gave
  [5%] like still less than 5%. That's crazy.
  [10%] like [clears throat] a SOFR plus 10%
  [99%] expense reviews with 99% accuracy. And
  [80%] fine with it. If we grow 80% versus like
  [95%] the mega cities. Wow. Probably 95% of
  [90%] that. I probably have 90% of my ideas
  [25%] than 25%. Your banking penetration is
  [85%] time back using AI to automate 85% of
  [75%] you're going to lose probably 50 to 75%
  [30%] Going like above 30% a year off of a
  [2012] Plaid back in 2012. It's very easy
  [1990] 1990s than it is to what we want it to
  [1950] lab in Cambridge in like the 1950s. Like
  [110%] 110%
  [2008] even like, you know, pre-2008 or
  [1%] company and I'm going to go get 1% of
  [90000] $90,000.
  [1800] in Japan in like the 1800s. I you know,
  [20%] you know, 10% of your company or 20% of
  [1000] conductors down from like 1,000 to 500,

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
My guest today is William Hockey, the
founder of Column. William was also the
co-founder of Plaid, one of the more
famous fintech businesses from the last
decade. Column is his second business,
which he's built from scratch, and
funding it entirely himself, [music]
and building it his way. I think you
will find this conversation utterly
fascinating, not just because of the
incredible quality of the business that
he's built, but how maniacal he is about
studying and implementing [music] ideas
in this specific field. This is a great
example of a founder that is winning
because he is willing to do everything.
My favorite example from our
conversation today is that he went and
found some obscure book about some
ancient bank in Japan, and found one
idea buried in the 2,000 pages that gave
him a simple idea for his product. He's
willing to do that over and over again,
and he explains his very different,
maybe even heretical views on a lot of
what's happening in the world of
startups and technology today. He offers
a very different way of building that I
think will be inspiring and interesting
to those that want to build a company.
Please enjoy my conversation with
William Hockey.
Usually I don't start [music] with a
description of the company that
someone's building.
But in your case, uh one, I don't think
a lot of people are yet familiar with
Column, and I want to fix that. And it's
such an interesting beast in and of
itself that it'll it'll be our excuse to
talk about many fascinating things in
the world. Can you just start by
explaining what the business is and
does? At a high level, we are a software
company that also owns a bank. And what
we do is we say, "Okay, we have this
interesting regulatory moat with a bank
that most other people don't have, and
we're going to build this incredible
software behind it that nobody else can
build because they're not a bank." We
started out by surveying a lot of
software companies that want to get into
financial services in the US. So, we're
the back end infrastructure that powers
the payments, deposits, credit of
amazing companies like Built, Wise,
Ramp, Brex, Mercury, these type of
companies. They run on our software and
on our regulatory rails. And we also
expand that to anybody wanting to do
things with the global dollar. So, that
could be international FinTechs, that
could be a lot of times global banks or
banks in emerging markets that need to
transact holdings in the dollar. So, in
the US, you have, you know, vertical
software, people building business
software. This is an area that is, you
know, probably going to get changed as
AI kind of rolls through. So, people
need to go deeper down into the
business. Just building software for
software's sake is not the case. And so,
now people actually need to control the
underlying finances of a business. The
Brex, Ramps, of kind of the world have
proven that you can actually build
enterprise software that also touches
the money. But in order to do that, you
actually have to control the dollar. You
have to control the money, whether it's
the lending money, holding credit, etc.
And so, we just expose a set of
primitives and APIs to allow anybody to
do that super easily.
that people might recognize and describe
literally what services or products they
use and then how they pay you for those
products or services? Just to like
really nail it home. So, maybe I'll use
a a company out here that recently
relaunched, company called Built, which
is made a lot of New Yorkers have, a lot
of people in cities have. If you look at
the card on the back, it says like, you
know, like issued by Column. So, we're
the one that is actually connecting with
the networks, managing the networks, and
we're actually the regulated entity
behind that. And then when you need to
go pay your rent or your landlord is
going to deduct money from your Built
account, if you look at like, oh, the
account and routing number there? Oh,
that's actually a Column account routing
number. So, they build the application,
they build the website, they build the
consumer marketing, and we're going to
handle everything kind of behind the
scenes that has to deal with the Federal
Reserve or TCH or the card networks or
Swift. We're the one
that I of build the software for that
and handle all that complexity. We are
technically a bank, but unlike banks, we
make 90 plus percent of our money off of
software. And so, similar to a any kind
of SaaS company, it's a per API call.
It's a pure play tech business. And then
we pass most of the economics in the
actual bank side of the business down to
all of our customers. One of the things
I love whenever we talk is you've always
been somewhere strange and interesting.
Kinshasa, I think was the last time we
were together. I don't know a lot of
founders going to Kinshasa very often.
Why are you so often in interesting kind
of bizarre locales around the world?
Plaid back in 2012. It's very easy
to stay in Silicon Valley. It's like
quality life is amazing.
Um there's a lot of money to be had.
There's a lot of super smart people. But
you can start to get quite isolated. And
you can start to get very consensus
focused. Quite a lot of you listeners
read Dan Wang's last letter on China.
And he has this like great, and I think
accurate, but somewhat harsh criticism
where he says the two the two most
consensus societies he's ever been to is
San Francisco and Beijing. And I think
that's like quite accurate, actually. Um
where San Francisco is probably the most
consensus place I've ever been to. And I
think that is both a huge clutch for us,
but it's also probably our most valuable
asset. Because as a founder, if you're
building in like I don't know like AI or
like stablecoins or something that San
Francisco believes is very consensus,
but the world does not believe yet.
That's actually a great operating
environment. Because you can go and you
can have these like outlandish ideas
that other people are going to believe
in, that nobody across the world will
believe in. And you can build this in a
very like safe way. And that's why
Silicon Valley and San Francisco is so
is so dynamic and we're so ahead of the
curve. But we also have completely lost
touch with how the rest of the world
operates, or even like everyday American
operates. And you've probably seen this
kind of smack us in the face over the
past of the past decade or two. And so,
I think it's very important to go to
places that don't have that same bias.
And I think if you think about emerging
markets specifically, the founders who
build there, there's the everyday
people, they live in this constrained
society. They're constrained in a way
that like San Francisco and New York
isn't. And that breeds a different type
of creativity, it breeds a different
type of innovation that you really can't
get anywhere else. Like if you go to
talk to people in London or Vienna or
Mexico City or San Francisco, whatever,
people are living in to an extent in a
world of abundance. And that causes a
very like specific creation cycle.
Why if you go to Kinshasa, which is the
capital Democratic Republic of Congo,
it's going to be the largest city in the
world in in probably 5 to 10 years. I
think it's already larger than most of
the mega cities. Wow. Probably 95% of
people in Silicon Valley couldn't tell
you what Kinshasa is the capital of. But
like, you know, just tens of millions of
people
that live in a highly, highly
constrained society. And so, that breeds
a sense of creativity, that breeds
ideas, that breeds stuff that you can't
really get anywhere else outside of
emerging markets. So, that's one. And
then second for my business, like the
dollar is fundamentally global. And the
dollar tends to be strongest in places
that we could imagine are relatively
dollarized. Places that are dollarized
tend to be more emerging markets where
they are using the dollar as their main
currency either unofficially or
officially because maybe they can't
……（中部抽样）……
trust their central bank, maybe they
more about like this the constraints you
where um there's a lot of Chinese
there's still a lot of going on. And
perception of America? What is your
either in the shower or like walking
to do in order to get people up to like
it's much lower hanging and just no
services. Like financial services tend
And when you get to design things from
used to this their their category being
you know, brains are distributed
markets. What? Like the brewers and the
already have amazing software and
buying a bank. And then they just kind
The largest bank in Congo is a bank
different. And you know, the good thing
fintech is probably going to be like the
a it's a big part of our revenue. It's
perspective despite being kind of of
Valley like it's an elite dominated
consumer buying patterns, people buy
our research labs are are doing
lives, people in Silicon Valley don't
world, but I don't know what our
maximize your time on their app to juice
business does too. To see what happens
your systems so it can work with your
finance professionals, and it's already
these mission-critical capabilities
looks as though you raised a ton of
started Plaid and I kind of did like the
Silicon Valley sometimes gets confused
be a cute lifestyle business. And I
does definitely put some constraints on
than your average business in the US,
strategy. Okay, AI is cool this year
Like it feels good.
think that, man, like you raise a
it's the right thing. And for us you
in a way that most companies can
us like not grow or like not focus on
to buy a software company right? We want
$2,000 a month to go to your rent or
probably not. So we can just do all this
if you're if you know, you're in a VC
That vesting over some period of time
people, "Okay, I'm at like our profits
By the way, you also don't have any pref
are like weird economic things that
get it? Because I think so often people
like we are not we're probably like not
aren't really going to be thinking about
for a 21-year-old. It's actually a
couple there's a couple of reasons for
think sometimes as like founders or VCs
private school. I want to like maybe not
here's your path to being like a
everybody. And so building a company,
had with Plaid do something like this
attempted to sell it to Visa for like $5
have any money. Without going into too
money in my bank account for a long
pull this off and we could build a a
shelter that from everybody. You need to
and I'm like, "Which side of the
a million dollars like, you know,
appreciation for the people that did it
bit more on what the psychology was like
risk part is something that we no longer
And in many ways, I think in Silicon
environment in Silicon Valley that it's
that has created a lot of value.
it more.
second company, third company." And you
but you can't go on." Cuz the weird
Well, I've now changed the trajectory of
living by myself. Like I'm making
like first employee like a failing
expensive. I think we need to say, "Hey,
wrap up an AI wrap Anthropic, whatever."
the raw the rawness of humanity, and I
I don't even own a majority of my house.
Um but it's also like that's that's what
something you are driving towards, so
know, it's like bet on yourself. I'm
hard to explain on podcasts. And I think
I don't want to do that. I'm a builder.
find value. And like I I probably have
about this is you probably get like one
pretty good at This notion of being the
exciting. Totally. So
is can they find the most boring thing
feel that they are they're like really
like interesting compelling ideas and
surfing in Thailand or whatever. Like,
that's where value is. But, it's [&nbsp;__&nbsp;]
what is wrong with you? Um and I was
college and I think um Zach, who is my
incredible lesson. But like when you
through like the early-stage part of a
smart, probably super pedigreed. And
advantage of them. Then you have like
little bit more commercially oriented
ton of upside, but we also want like we
it's very challenging to tell that on
getting that kind of hone for talent is
times people focus a ton on like, "Hey,
part of something. They want to feel
like one part of the equation. Um and I
your mission is. They just care about
Like how do you think about um how
customer like, "I'm going to be your
framework is extremely critical for our
Silicon Valley.
a patchwork of software vendors on top
probably don't want to be dependent on.
faster than I'm right now. And I don't
are we like we're good." Like there's a
through it goes like this.
so many tools offering band-aids and
control.
management, helping ambitious firms
what would be What would you What would
without VCs straight up. I just don't
environment on like which investors are
actually going to grow at a consistent
you know what's like much harder?
ingest hundreds of millions, if not
case with most markets. And so I think
And you have to look really intensely at
dollar does and it it it connects
of the OECD over
something that we don't really get in
what it makes America so [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] unique.
Switzerland, okay?
institutions.
That's a luxury and that's such an
like that, but like still the vast
national security is part of the mission
success of Silicon Valley. Like probably
want to use a sanction before they use a
before.
the sky. Like we're pretty happy here."
special forces, they can go do that. But
down a country from exports, right? And
part of the national security strategy
strategy just in the same way that
the ground. What do you then hope is the
with that want to put the power of
weapons. We should still have the
just accumulating
diversified. Take Take Canada.
there, but we're actually starting from
like a fun talking point, but like
money through all of these institutions
The reason why community banks
You can't get people to work on the
implementation, not the underlying
missed?
things I think a lot about is, okay,
you.
accrued to the people like building the
And I sometimes don't think we're
suffer from the fact that the business
Um but that also I think makes their
beneficiaries. Because banks don't have
it doesn't like change the equation at
And so the banks that are like the most
……（接近结尾）……
face. Like see these?
They're all fake.
And that time I got punched in the face
and I've like lost teeth. It's honestly
kind of crazy. It's like kind of
embarrassing.
Um but I'm like, you know, it's
pretty good at getting punched in the
face. And and like that you can only
teach that as a little kid. You can only
like
have that childhood that makes that
comfortable in a very in a very specific
environment. And I think you know, I
have a I have a 6-month-old and as I
look at my peers and look at everybody
else, we are like quite obsessed with
creating this like
perfect environment for our children. We
send them to like the best schools. They
have the nicest people in their lives.
And and that is that is valuable, but we
may be creating children that can do
linear algebra at seven. And I guess
it's like going to be great. They're
going to be like great AI researchers.
But
is that what we're going to need
in 20 years from now?
Um or do you want kids that are going to
be like pretty good at taking risks,
that are going to be pretty good at
being punched in the face?
And and I think my parents did a really
good job at that. I feel very lucky for
that. If I copy all of my peers, I don't
know if that's like the that's that's
the path we're going to go down. And I
think the fact that I am like
pretty damn resilient um is a complete
product of my parents and I think that's
a huge gift and I I feel super lucky for
them every day. [music] A beautiful
place to close. Thank you very much,
Jim. Thank you.
Most software companies try to maximize
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back using
AI to automate 85% of expense reviews
with 99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves
companies 5%, it's no wonder that
Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs on
Ramp, and my business does, too. To see
what happens when you eliminate the busy
work, check out ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com to see
what they can unlock for your firm.
OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic, Perplexity,
and Vercel all have something in common.
They all use WorkOS. And here's why: to
achieve enterprise adoption at scale,
you have to deliver on core capabilities
like SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs.
That's where WorkOS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
of them on day zero. That's why so many
of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the
fastest way to become enterprise-ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit workos.com to get
started. Every investor should know
about Rogo because Rogo AI's platform is
not just another generic chatbot.
Instead, it was designed to support how
Wall Street bankers and investors
actually work, from sourcing, diligence,
and modeling to turning analysis into
deliverables. For me, three key things
differentiate Rogo. First, it connects
directly to your systems, so it can work
with your actual data. Second, it
understands your workflows, how work
really happens across a deal or an
investment. And third, it runs
end-to-end and produces real outputs the
way the best people do. Auditable
spreadsheets, investment memos,
diligence materials, and slide decks
that match your standards. This all
comes from the fact that Rogo is built
by finance professionals for finance
professionals. And it's already being
adopted by some of the most demanding
institutions in the world. To learn
more, visit rogo.ai/invest.