TITLE: Why Israel Could Be Forced to Stop: Shira Efron on War, Fatigue & Netanyahu | The Mishal Husain Show
CHANNEL: The Mishal Husain Show
DURATION_S: 2373  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-27T06:13:39+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qEoR6z4WlPg
SHA256: cb0b62bf30f61311892e38ded206328c3d1aef2c64435ded6462b210022c01fa

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [80%] Polling suggests that around 80% of
  [2025] June 2025 that the Iranian threat was
  [99.999999%] but I'll put 99.999999% that
  [70000] 70,000
  [18000] rubble still, including 18,000 children.
  [2017] 2017, had a manifesto where he says that
  [2023] two-state solution on October 6th, 2023,
  [2028] ahead to 2028? It'll be the year of

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
When President Trump says we're done,
Israel's going to be done. And Israelis
could be disappointed at this outcome
because an agreement is not something
that Israel favors.
with Iran and what's at stake
politically.
coming in Israel part of the Prime
Minister's calculation in starting this
war?
perpetual state of war also serves the
Prime Minister's political objectives.
This is a good reason to keep postponing
elections, especially if all polling
shows that you're not likely to win.
Michelle Hussein Show.
Once again, the headlines have been
moving fast on the Middle East. So fast
in fact that there've been times when
it's nearly impossible to work out where
the truth actually lies. One moment
there's a US threat to bomb power
plants, the next, a pivot towards a deal
with Iran.
anything.
They want to make a deal very badly.
that unpredictability on US intentions
leave Israel?
Polling suggests that around 80% of
Israelis support the war with Iran and
that's part of what we explore in this
next conversation. It's with Shira Efron
who's been a Middle East analyst for the
last 20 years and is now distinguished
chair of Israel policy at RAND, a think
tank which gets most of its funding from
the US government and the US military. I
had heard her say on another podcast
that she's more about policy than
politics, but in this we did talk about
political leadership, about the
elections that are due in Israel later
this year, about the Mossad and Iran,
the situation in Lebanon, Gaza, and on
the West Bank. We began though with
Shira herself because I wanted to know
about the impact of these weeks of war
on her life in Tel Aviv.
who see Israel and the US as the
aggressors here, right? And look at the
the damage that Iran is inflicting on
everyone else to forget that there is a
human dimension also in Israel
regardless of the rule in this war. I
will say it on the personal level, we
are fine, God bless. We have a bomb
shelter at home that we when we moved
into this house we never thought we
would use, but past October 7th it's
been the room most frequented in the
house by all of us. So, it's back to
routine, quite heavy hitting. We live in
the central part of Israel in Tel Aviv.
So, Tel Aviv is hit pretty frequently
around the sirens.
I have three boys who are unlike their
parents quite happy to be at home, but
it's something that they've gotten used
to, right? After COVID which the whole
world experienced and then post October
7th I I think these kids had they're
barely had school in the past 6 years.
times you hear the sirens day or night
and you're all down in the bomb shelter.
functioning system, but there's a
ear-shattering scream that comes through
the phones before the sirens come to
make sure you wake up. And then about
between 6 to 10 minutes afterwards the
sirens come. We all go down to the
shelter, you wait it 10 minutes, you
hear those bombs exploding somewhere
whether it's a direct hit and it's quite
ironic, but you even hear the kids say,
"Oh, it sounds like a cluster rocket
now." Or it sounds like a direct hit. Or
maybe it's the Iron Dome interception.
Then we get out, we try to sort of
continue with our lives, but we're
mostly stranded home. We are flying, got
used to this, but but it is challenging
and there are other Israelis who are
less lucky, right? There have been
casualties, obviously, property damages
across the country.
public opinion on this war has shifted
as the weeks have gone on. The most
recent polling I've seen has suggested
about 80% support for this war. Do you
sense any change in the public mood?
can be true at once. Support for the war
remains at around 80%. These are the
last polls that I've seen as well from a
variety of sources. There is a a belief
in the necessity
of this war to remove an existential
threat from Israel. And we we can debate
the merit of this argument. However,
there is a fatigue, right? People are
are home with the kids. It's very
difficult for working parents to go to
work. I think anyone who survived COVID
with kids would sympathize with this
issue. It takes a toll on the
independents,
people who own their own businesses.
Obviously, anyone who is in reserve
duty, Israel has been at war for around
900 days. I have friends who've been in
reserve duty for 800 of these days. And
there is maybe a slight decline in the
numbers in the belief that this war will
reach its objectives, which from an
Israeli perspective was supposed to
bring a toppling of the Iranian regime.
And I think this is where we see this
this slight shift and sort of
understanding, yes, this war
is necessary and it is weakening the
regime and it's degrading capabilities
that Iran has to strike Israel, but
there's a slight decline in the belief
that it will remove the threat once and
for all.
fact that last summer Israelis were told
by Benjamin Netanyahu who at the end of
the 12-day war that the sword of of the
Iranian threat hanging over their heads
had been removed. Is there any level of
confusion at being told that last summer
and going to war again this year?
feeling of déjà vu. We had heard only in
June 2025 that the Iranian threat was
removed. Obviously, the US president
also said that he obliterated the
Iranian nuclear plan. So, how come
only 8 months after and the Israeli
public, unlike publics around the world,
have been ready uh for round two for a
couple of months before this round
broke. Very clearly, the question is
like, wait, if we just did it, how come
we need to do it again? And it's not
just Iran. There's a secondary front
that's turning into a primary front when
we look at the sort of Lebanon. We had
heard that Hezbollah was decimated,
right? Hezbollah is a Shiite group in
Lebanon that's also a terrorist group.
Um that Hezbollah was decimated and that
we took out its arsenal. So, in a sense,
there is um
misalignment with the the promises and
the declarations that are coming from
Israeli leadership versus reality.
And
this is I think one of the gaps that is
frustrating the Israeli public.
Shira, is the fact that there's an
election coming in Israel part of the
prime minister's calculation in starting
this war?
thing in Israel at the moment that it's
very difficult
to
disconnect anything that is happening in
this country from political motivations.
For Prime Minister Netanyahu, I want to
say um Iran has been like a religion.
For four decades, he's been speaking
about the need to remove the to to hit
the Islamic Republic of Iran. Yeah, he's
using apocalyptic terms, and he's been
using them for three to four decades,
uh, including presentations with props
of the UN that some some people
may remember. So, it is a genuine from
his perspective.
It does not mean that what he sees as
the national interest does not align
well with his political interest.
And, of course,
the reason for opening this war, the
first round in June, and then now again,
this was an operational opportunity
that we can get into. But, there is a
sense in Israel that the desire to keep
Israelis off their feet and in this
perpetual state of war also serves the
Prime Minister's political objectives,
because, first of all, it's very
difficult to go to elections when you're
in the middle of a war, right? This is a
good reason to keep postponing
elections, especially if all polling
shows that you're not likely to win.
Again,
could be part of the calculation, a
desire to delay the election, so there
might not be one this year?
indication now that the elections will
take place in time, but I I do want to
remind you that when October 7th
happened,
uh, the biggest failure, the biggest
massacre of Jews since the Holocaust,
right? The expectation expectation in
Israel was that the Prime Minister will
resign and the country will go to
election to receive a renewed mandate
……（中部抽样）……
from the Israeli public. That has not
coalition leadership has said all along,
So, it is possible that the elections
It is possible, and God knows where
But also, Netanyahu himself has
could strengthen him. We're not seeing
Mr. Security. And so, it serves a dual
sure.
in the Israeli leadership. I'm sure you
to the prime minister with a plan and
likely be able to galvanize the Iranian
collapse of the regime
I have not seen the PowerPoint by the
will happen right away, that there's a
that between 6 months and a year, the
counterfactual. We've seen these massive
was going to be 87 years old soon. So,
regime would fall in a year. We can
timeline issue that was not reported. In
from the IDF, there are a lot of there's
politicians and who wants to throw the
right, on the part of leadership. Uh
what if it doesn't work?" And you can't
topple a regime. Uh my fear is that
does most serious reporting. Um
how should I say I'll try to be
dragging the US into this war.
only strengthen this narrative, which I
and foremost, American legislators,
Israeli government, Prime Minister
and
countries. You know, Israel is
relationships with Europe, most
academia and R&amp;D cannot survive without
matter. And I haven't even begun
Israel has become more divisive within
Democratic Party. And also there's
Palestinians than than the Israelis. I I
when you see numbers like that, Shira,
are a citizen of both countries.
And I don't think it needs to be a
around the world. I think it's it's very
defense of national security is is the
this relationship can be sustained.
at the moment.
and the Jewish community has been also a
these communities, I often find that the
Democrats, most of the Jews in the
Israelis.
to American Jews and diaspora Jews in
has been also for American Jews. And I'm
I know the most. How short it's been for
with our protests campuses, but not only
country that might have dragged the US
narrative uh that is there, and Israel
an entire community that is connected to
but also on the personal levels, it's
there's been an attack on ambulances
for the Jewish community, but many
And I'm not one that thinks that any
difference.
feeds into a narrative um and in Israel,
uh as sensitive as they need to be, not
war, there is something fundamentally
countries have been part of this war
long time, but this has been a joint
Donald Trump decides to stop? And if you
"We are very willing to do a deal. I the
war and what we're seeing now,
gave a green light to for Israel and
came with their immense capabilities,
for this specific mission and it was
a partnership, uh, Trump at the end of
around. And I have heard from people who
Israeli Air Force with one phone with
order in real time, you know,
the from the US president, not from the
partnership. And you have Israeli Air
stationed in CENTCOM and vice versa,
There's one boss.
board, including in the defense
Israel's going to be done.
Israelis could be disappointed at this
Israel could not, would not continue if
but I'll put 99.999999% that
tempo has changed, but if you listen to
the war because it was unknown in Israel
I think undeniably is a war that Israel
stopped
question, whether there's another round
and agreement, Israel will have to abide
including with ground forces that has
now the finance minister Bezalel
between Israel and Lebanon.
whatever agreement if there is one with
I'm not sure the US attention is there
now a very secondary front, Lebanon,
targeted strikes, but we're also seeing
buffer zone.
diplomatic agreement. And you know,
the result that Israelis want. So, I'm
and it needs to be led by the United
Iran, and the fact that the Iranians are
And taking advantages of really
want to say welcoming of Israel, but no
there's there's really an opportunity in
that, you know, this is the definition
different results.
questions the fact that the Israeli
and that the Lebanese state
occupies parts of Lebanon, it's going to
its influence brought to an end?
community, which is the Hezbollah
representatives of the Shiite community,
interests of Iran than the interests of
terrorist organizations, it can never be
the IRA, it's never just a kinetic
less important and this opportunity for
Lebanese government needs help. They
policy of disarming terrorist
has not worked and will not work?
in after signing a ceasefire in Gaza
and allowed the Palestinians in Gaza
you have Hamas
are.
is really the governing power with arms
hasn't worked. It has to come with a
something the Palestinian people choose
round finishes, we can focus on Gaza
20-point plan that President Trump uh
and Palestinian authority that is
advanced, but the opportunity still
Israel will go back to fighting in Gaza
uh again the the blessing of the the
recognized internationally body, the
that is in southern Israel. I think you
ceasefire and keeping an eye on what's
advantages monitoring the ceasefire and
bless
as as an achievement of his foreign
structures. And I I have a lot of
they would lead
negotiations and Palestinian right. And
these modalities and brought them into
of of issues. It all hinges now on Hamas
then Israel agreeing to do what it
Palestinian Authority, not the UN, no
President Trump.
And for this to succeed you need really
again, there is a ceasefire, but the
people, Palestinians, not including
It is and at the same time to see what
the actions of the Israeli military. And
other day. It's an ongoing picture that
it is seen and the the images and the
Palestinians. And when we talk about
When Israel was supposed to be a a
this going on in areas that Israel
death toll is something that is still
of how many of these have been
something that Israelis
other side. Children are children are
They are not it's not their fault. There
indiscriminate killing. That I know it
opening fire, but the fact is that two
maybe soldiers' lives than Palestinian
I I wrote something about it, so
not being numb to the suffering of
shelter, making sure that people have
mean, when you talk about, you know, the
And I'm saying this, and yes, of course,
treated in, I mean, we can't even even
sympathy among the Israelis for
everything that happened, but this is
view, couldn't justify everything.
territory, even though it is
……（接近结尾）……
because one of the tragedies is it's not
just Netanyahu, also from the opposition
leaders,
you don't hear the vision of
separating peacefully from the
Palestinians, understanding that there's
a partner on the other side, not an
ideal partner, but there's a partner on
the other side. The vast majority of
Palestinians do not want to wake up in
the morning and kill Jews,
right? Israelis don't hear that, and
they should hear this from leadership.
It shouldn't come from the public to
tell the leadership what to do. That's
not how leadership's supposed to work.
it, who stood up and said, "Palestinians
have rights too. Just as Israel has a
right to exist, Palestine should have a
right to exist."
take today, and I don't think anyone
will take it.
And the the tragedy of thing across
Israelis and Palestinians is that it's
portrayed as a zero-sum game, and it's
not, right? Your right to
self-determination does not negate the
others.
And it's a small piece of land, but it
frankly There's some polling on this.
Most Israelis, and definitely most
Palestinians, but most Israelis don't
care about one hilltop somewhere where
they don't even know where it is, closer
to the border with Jordan. They only
want to wake up in the morning and feel
safe.
And Palestinians want to feel safe, too.
And, you know, it's easier for me to
speak about the lack of uh Israeli
leadership that presents this vision,
but we haven't had a good vision on
Palestinian side, either, right? A
Palestinian leader that comes and tells
their people,
"We live with the Israelis. Most of the
Israelis don't want to kill us.
Uh we accept there was war, and we're
probably not going to return to our
homes in Haifa and in Tel Aviv, but we
will have a state, and we will coexist."
And claim responsibility and offer a
vision that, frankly, before speaking to
the Israelis, dignifies the Palestinians
with with with efficient services that
they deserve. They They deserve better
leadership, too.
ahead to 2028? It'll be the year of
Israel's 80th birthday.
It will also be, by the end of the year,
a time with a new president coming into
the White House in the United States.
What do you think Israel will look like
by then? What do you think Israel-US
relations will look like by then?
because I can't um I can't stress how
important the next Israeli elections
are. And we only in our group of
friends,
the very few who are still in Israel
because so many of them have left the
country in the past few years,
as a direct result of the policies of
the Israeli government, but so many of
the others that have left are holding
their passports in hand and not making
decisions about changing house and
stuff, just waiting for the outcome of
this election.
If there's a different government in
Israel,
maybe not the ideal government, but a
different government that sees the
benefits of the country, all of the
country, not just the settler and the
Haredi population, right? The sectors
that they support, and sees as a
priority to first of all I'm not saying
that think going to
I I doubt we're going to see a
Palestinian state, but there's going to
be a complete stop to settler violence
and complete halt to the damaging trends
and leadership that improves
relationship with Israel's neighbors and
that sees the Jewish community and sees
the need to improve relationship with
Europe, which is really
a big priority issue also for Israel. I
think
Israeli US ties can can can uh sustain
this also and we're going to see a
shift. Uh we're not past the Rubicon in
a sense that I think it's it's it's a
lost cause.
However,
uh if the elections uh bring us a
coalition government that is served what
we're seeing today, which is which is
unlikely and all polling shows that this
coalition is not going to come to being
again.
Um it's going to be very very difficult
to convince the world that there's needs
to be a separation between the Israeli
government and the Israeli public.
having me.