TITLE: Conviction Investing: Masters in Business with Bill Miller IV
CHANNEL: Masters in Business
DURATION_S: 3481  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-21T09:00:47+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dzI2vRoGawM
SHA256: d9de48f25d6256452f24210d27a75aabc5c7f468cfeceb5e6a51c6146f5431ec

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2%] &gt;&gt; And what they found was that the 2% uh
  [2025] &gt;&gt; I mean, that had a great 2025.
  [1999] environment remind us of 1999, right?
  [2010] possible prior to 2009 or 2010 when the
  [2000] between call it 1999 2000 all the way
  [2020] 2020, we've had the era of uh fiscal
  [0708] investing late 0708?
  [2013] of time probably from 2013 or 2014 until
  [2014] of time probably from 2013 or 2014 until
  [2019] think it was 2019 or so. So, got to work
  [2011] 2011, something like that.
  [2018] technician in 2018.
  [2009] possible prior to 2009 or 2010 when the
  [60000] after it briefly broke 60,000.
  [10%] 10% uh of that fund. So we'll talk more
  [9%] dollar was down 9% in 2025,
  [10000] going to buy a $10,000 Birkin bag and
  [1.7] Bitcoin would trade at $1.7 million a
  [4%] it's 3 or 4%.
  [12%] market it's going to be 10 to 12% most
  [6%] at where we are with mortgages at 6% and
  [1980] television interview in the 1980s in New
  [3000] what's within your control 3,000 2,000

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
This week on the podcast, I have yet
another extra special guest, Miller
Value Funds, Bill Miller IV. He is the
son of Bill Miller III. Fascinating uh
investor, portfolio manager, and World
Series of Poker uh player. They have a
very unique approach to value. It's not
your traditional just buy them cheap. I
thought this conversation was
fascinating and I think you will also
with no further ado my conversation with
Miller Value Funds, Bill Miller.
Bill Miller, I feel like I have to add
the fourth. Welcome to Bloomberg.
here. So, so I want to talk about uh
your investment philosophy, what you're
doing at Miller Value today, but let's
roll back a little bit beforehand. You
get a degree in economics from TUS and
then an MBA from Dartmouth TU School of
Business. Was investing the original
career plan?
Um, you know, when I was growing up,
went to a small uh private boy school in
Baltimore, Maryland. never really knew
what I wanted to be when I grew up, but
uh when I pointed out to my parents,
they said, "Well, just consider school
as your job." And uh the harder you
study, the more options you'll have down
the line, and it'll help you figure it
out. So,
academically in school. Uh so, when I
went to TUS, I think the primary concern
was somewhere where I could actually
play baseball.
that was something that my dad and I
often did together. He was my coach in
little league. Something I'm doing now
today for my son. Um, sports teach you a
lot about being on a team, about uh how
to operate, how to internalize what you
you can and control what you can and not
focus on the rest. So, learned a lot
from that. Um,
learned that pretty quickly. Um, I
played
good and really good is so tiny. Just
like a little wood on the bat, once or
twice more a week and you're in a
different tier.
myself for a while about how good I
could be, but I also probably didn't
focus on the right things. And knowing
what I know now about how to get better
and improve at things, I could have been
much more systematic about it than I
was.
McKenzie. Why why consulting? What What
led to that?
group
but then, you know, onampus recruiting
came along and Mackenzie was one of the
names and I just applied to it, did a
little work on it and, uh, made it
through that interview process was
pretty rigorous.
said, "Hey, Dad, I love being with your
group. Investing is a lot of fun. You
know, what would you do if you were me?"
And he said, 'Well, you can always tell
McKenzie, you can always come back and
work for me, but if you tell Mackenzie
no, you'll never have a chance to work
there again. Right?
again. And also, there was he knew and I
didn't know at the time, but they place
an immense amount of uh focus on
professional development. Um, and so
that was a really valuable place to
spend the first three years of my
career. So, I was working on a huge
variety of consulting projects. main
actually the job I had there now I don't
I don't know if it exists because of AI.
So what I was doing was remotely
supporting teams on research efforts
just ask chat GBT about and he probably
does a better job summarizing everything
I could possibly do and you know
little bit of an if
focusing on primary sources is a uh
still a critical skill that I think a
lot of people underemphasize. What did
you take from your years consulting that
showed up uh and as helpful as an
investor?
might surprise you less so about the
data driven nature because my dad's a
data driven thinker and thinking
quantitatively has always been in my uh
wheelhouse. But the thing that I learned
at McKenzie more than anywhere else
would be the focus on client service
uh do the subtle things that show you
know somebody else as the client. Um in
finance, you know, when you're managing
money, it's very hard to differentiate
uh yourself and that you know Ken French
who was a professor of mine uh at
Dartmouth. Sure.
he imparted on us was how how long does
it take to know if a money manager is
actually any good? And the answer is I'm
from a statistically significant basis
longer than any money manager's career.
statistically significant. Right? So you
have to be doing other things. It's like
we were talking about before we came in
here. Content's a big focus, right?
That's a way to differentiate yourself.
Uh the way you communicate with clients,
getting back to them quickly. All of
these things are really important. And I
learned those at Mackenzie and I'm not
sure I would have learned those to the
same extent if I had just directly
joined my dad's firm. So that might be a
surprising answer but it is a
McKenzie was uh a solid uh place to get
grounded. What led to the pivot to
investing late 0708?
handing over analyses to clients and
then leaving and moving on to the next
analysis. And it occurred to me that if
you actually wanted to you know build
any equity in your analysis and what you
were doing you had to actually take a
real stake in something. And so that
made me think, okay, you know, this is
it'd be a great time to pivot from what
I was doing at Mackenzie to my dad's
side of things where that's exactly what
you're doing all day every day. Excuse
me. And then I also during college I
took a liking to poker
back then poker stars was kind of an
illegal gray area. And so I I played a
lot online and I saw a lot of
similarities between what my dad did
poker analytical uh edge in terms of
thinking quantitatively at McKenzie and
it all kind of came around to moving in
that direction. So, speaking of your
your father, how did growing up in the
Bill Miller household influence how you
look at at risk and reward, at
investing, at how big of an influence
was he on your initial philosophy?
A, B, and C because it was as much
learning from watching him
was always always had a stack of
research and was always going through
content, always looking for new
perspectives. He's a relentless truth
seeker. And I think that's ultimately
what we're doing as investors is trying
to separate where the truth is from
where the perception is around what's
going to happen. And the bigger the gap,
the more you want to place a bet.
important, is it? Exactly. Especially
when that gap gets bigger and bigger.
you know, a margin of safety there to to
protect you on the downside.
So relentless truth seeeking. And the
other thing is, you know, there were no
shortcuts for him. There's no there's no
substitute for actually putting in the
time to going through that content all
the time and being in front of your your
machine all day and and just time is the
ultimate uh resource and constraint for
everyone. Mhm.
thinking how to maximize your
productivity per unit of time I think is
something that uh I took away from him.
family business that's a pretty loaded
concept for a lot of people. Um what was
it like first going back to work with
your father and then becoming the
controlling o owner of Miller Value
Partners?
Um, it was fantastic because we were a
small group at LEG uh for a good period
of time probably from 2013 or 2014 until
we split off and went independent in I
think it was 2019 or so. So, got to work
with my dad very closely a lot. Um, you
know, but at the same time, one of the
things I love about it is the market
doesn't really care what he did or
didn't do. Mhm.
of the portfolios, it'll hinge upon my
decision-m more so than what he did. And
so, it's on me to now take everything
I've learned and run with it and do what
we can do.
you find your way into that?
when uh Chris Money Maker won
remember. Sure.
you know, he stressed a lot of the
quantitative decision- making. And um
the other thing I actually looked at
coming out of uh uh Tuck was baseball
……（中部抽样）……
operations stuff because Moneyball was a
mistakes I made there. So, um,
obviously learn more from the errors.
was thinking I want to do baseball
And as I went through the recruiting
Topeka at the end of it, which to me
businesses.
Topeka. I just couldn't imagine that,
hey, I'm I'm a really good software
like so I but I understand the
align with what you want to do. And I
previously or would you go a different
term. I do think one of the lesser
zero to gajillion dollars over the next
that's power washing, home cleaning,
consider.
you're going to have a good outcome in
learning around software development or
investing and in particular on value?
capital management merged with
asset manager. So
run it too thin from a operating capital
crisis. You get your CFA soon after
the poker table, the CMT teaches you to
now than I use the CFA.
is see multiples coming down and a stock
the chart and when the volumes change
action and volume and um that's been a
the appreciation that most assets are
We're reading research. We're looking at
once we identify something that looks
new ideas to see if it can be a fit to
with the latest earnings report or or
undervalued and then trying to figure
those mistakes is sitting right in our
be. Um, but I would say at a high level,
that's only temporarily out of favor,
undervalued doesn't mean that other
position sizes because sometimes you
the key reports that my dad looked at
name has done over the past day, week,
just eliminated our Google position a
be a huge AI winner.
earnings and cash flow basis. Um yet it
to build it with. So, um, and you know,
That's probably fairly valued today, I
have done so well over the past two to
been going on recently, they don't
materializing down the line. So where we
entire software as a service uh business
revenue of Mag 7 today. And those
this capex investment upfront and then
it's right, who knows?
and sounds like specific industry and uh
quantitative value perspective and
alignment. So we want to see managers,
shares if it's mispriced? Hopefully,
investors in our own funds as well. So,
insider activity. So when you see a big
piece on do insider buyers indicate
only one reason to buy a stock.
it? No. But if you can contextualize it
capital in
your your dad's starting with how do you
intellectual property based business
going to do very well over the long run
they're constantly seeking to grow that
whereby my business partner Dan Lysk has
cheap but not broken is obviously uh
out?
that they've used to fulfill their
now for probably 10 years is uh our def
It's based upon other people's beliefs.
gold. It's a form of capital governance.
one of the reasons I think Bitcoin is so
system, right? And so, what explains
Um, it's totally separate from the fiat
got this new emerging system of capital
volatile, but um I think it's headed to
digital assets collectively are about
stop thinking as a unique asset class. I
came out around the same time as an
disappear tomorrow, it wouldn't affect
those guys and all sorts of techn
households it took a hundred years
it's a capital denominator. It's not a
now, it's ultimately backed by this the
actually around the world the countries
less of distinction between who controls
controlled by anyone, right? And that
energy to do that and in exchange for
somebody, you know, a bunch of Congress
there's uh there's still some issues
valuable thing because it takes energy
least accountable party ends up winning
inflation. And it's, you know, it's it's
often times the the blue side of the
that offers a promise of effectively
money and everything that we were warned
you want three and a half, four% as a
okay, so here's an idea that we're g,
have a hard time getting past uh the
Well, a central bank and a government
pretty aggressive in embracing it,
talking about stability. Yeah. The US
is something with no fundamental value,
value and totally reproducible and like
of crazy prices these traded at. So,
impact. And that's because we are the
four time multiples the number of
it that has more stability of process
quantitative inevitability of the
when you think about, you know, as if
trades
happened to be formed in the collision
to bet on one of the big mega caps well
right, for Bitcoin, if you map the the
in the current environment. Uh if you
what's out there that's overpriced?
momentum the momentum factor last year
acceleration potentially in the US and
nowhere for seven years I mean it went
valuation discrepancies today between
midcap value space and you have uh
lower hurdle rate for those guys to
Last year, we only saw two, that's 2025,
are going to say, "Hey, we've had so
midcap value a quoteunquote inferior
you look at its weight in the market
honest that gap. Um and so you know
few years. And I think you could see
the marginal cost of production,
does it what does it mean to see despite
overweight energy.
you know 10 to 13 times earnings in a
continue to come online. um you take
just strictly a function of hey we're
underperform the index for their
outperforming instead of effectively
you are to underperform it, right?
that there are going to be periods when
way to do it
you're Fidelity and you got a guy that's
depends on what you're trying to do and
disrupting traditional business models?
investor?
a large investment firm?
you, sometimes you just throw it into AI
I think a lot of life is about asking
lot of good perspectives in there that
we're also adding uh Claude here soon.
grinding work, like, oh, it does this so
Is that a fair price? I I think it it
Is this the sort of thing that everybody
amount of time or less. Um,
major regime changes. We had the era of
all all these different things, how do
past decade to today is coming out of
in capex that had gone into housing that
that came out of I think the San
bogey, supposed to be a quote unquote
kinds of different assets perform. And I
half 2%. It doesn't make sense
has major implications for the kinds of
decade now that capital has a cost again
that was it. It just magically stuck.
it's two and not three or one. Yeah,
prices,
owned homes there are no mortgages and
aggregate don't appreciate by more than
makes a lot of sense.
time. Let's jump to our favorite
……（接近结尾）……
thing you take away from my class it's
never pay a load on an investment fund.
And that's certainly still true today.
books. What are some of your favorites?
What are you reading right now?
called The Mattering Instinct.
it's a fascinating book uh on
um people's desire to matter and what
that means.
There's a lot of philosophy in it. Uh
the basic premise is that we're all just
trying to overcome entropy so that the
tendency for disorder and systems to
increase and we're all going to die
eventually. And
but while we're here
Right. So that's what I'm reading now.
Um I just read prior to this uh let them
the Mel Robbins book.
selling book
one up pretty succinctly and it's uh
focus on what you can control and don't
let anything else get to you.
to my dad because he sees me reading it
and he's like, "Haven't haven't you ever
read Marcus Aurelius's meditations?"
This is this is not a new idea.
what's within your control 3,000 2,000
years ago.
a phenomenal book as well. It's just
good to have more modern stories that
you can relate to.
days? What are you streaming? Either
podcasts or or, you know, Netflix or
whatever.
do
watch sports. I'll watch, you know, an
occasional standup comedy show, but I
don't watch the series.
year?
pretty awesome.
haven't watched it yet, but uh I know
you're a tennis guy. Y
can take Djokovic and uh put him back on
his heels.
was match was pretty awesome.
him like months later when I get around
to it.
something I've just started taking. I'm
terrible, you know. I'm an 18 handicap.
High variance 18 though, so I can have
some pretty good days. Um, but it's
interesting because there's there's a
similarity to investing in golf, which
is golf, you get better at golf by
narrowing your misses.
investing. If you start narrowing the
misses, it's a way to get better.
with tennis. Most tennis players lose
because they make all these unforced
errors. Other than the pros,
most of us would be better off being
less bad rather than trying to be more
good. If that makes any sense.
strokes doing that.
What sort of advice would you give to a
recent college grad interested in a
career in either investing or value or
what have you?
father said to you in terms of create
future optionality by studying and doing
well in school. I've never quite heard
it phrased that way, but that really
sums up why do I have to study algebra?
Because you're just creating
optionality.
creating more options for yourself down
the road. And so anytime you can invest
in yourself and create additional
options is a good thing to do.
final question, what do you know about
the world of investing, valuations,
portfolio management today uh that would
have been useful when you were first
getting started 20 years ago or so?
books earlier. I personally think that
the best book on personal finance is the
psychology of money
that, uh, anyone that gets a bank
account should be required to read that
and just internalize the concepts. Um, I
know if you've been in the industry a
while, not all of it's new, but it's a
lot of it's a really good reminder on
how you should behave uh to create
wealth over the long term for yourself.
in and for being so generous with your
time. We have been speaking with Bill
Miller, the fourth. He is the chief
investment officer and portfolio manager
at Miller Value Fund. If you enjoy this
conversation, well, check out any of the
600 we've done over the past 12 years.
You can find those wherever you find
your favorite podcasts, iTunes, Spotify,
Bloomberg, YouTube. Uh, I would be
remiss if I didn't thank the crack team
that helps put these conversations
together each week. Alexis Noriega is my
video producer. Sean Russo is my
researcher. Anna Luke is my producer.
I'm Barry Rhoffz. You've been listening
to Masters in Business on Bloomberg
Radio.