TITLE: Former Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd Blankfein on Why He Doesn't Tweet | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots
DURATION_S: 2940  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-05T09:12:47+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sgtun8y8Xes
SHA256: 86efbe368acf039f127596f2dc9402060a12874c16be8ee91ae16ccca5a830bc

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2018] I stopped in 2018 and end of 2000 so the
  [1982] literally 1982 and 1983, middle of the
  [1983] literally 1982 and 1983, middle of the
  [100%] to more than 100%.
  [2008] than what we saw in 2008 when we had
  [2000] I stopped in 2018 and end of 2000 so the
  [2020] turned out 2018, 2020 was sort of the
  [20%] you know, like a 15 7 15 to 20% chance
  [30%] didn't have to put down 30% to get a
  [9000] 8 or 9,000, very tragic, horrible
  [2001] 2001 a Space

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Nobody can remember being friends with
Russia now, but we were
When I started
you couldn't think of going to Russia. I
remember I once my my early days, I was
in the commodities business also. I
started in the commodities business. I
used to go to Russia in the early '80s,
literally 1982 and 1983, middle of the
Cold War. I remember when the plane
would take off and you wouldn't go
direct, you'd go switch. The plane would
go in the air, people would start
applauding when the plane lifted off.
You couldn't imagine Russia being
normal, like a place to do business.
Then in the go-go years after the fall
of the
of the iron the curtain, you'd go there
and it was like the what
It was
It was It was capitalism on steroids.
And you thought that that was going to
endure.
And now, you know, it reversed again.
Same thing with China. When, you know,
we invested a lot of time. I personally
invested a lot of time. And Lloyd and
your brother, we still have a big
business in China, but it's, you know,
as you imagine, it's strained now. It's
very hard to do business.
The music has kind of a Western [music]
vibe. Yeah, it's nice. It's very
Some people love it, some people hate
to make. Yeah, go on.
This is probably the most nervous I've
ever been for an Odd Lots episode.
And actually, the reason why you'll know
cuz you were there.
met Lloyd Blankfein in person was at a
sort of media round table. And for some
reason, I felt it incumbent upon myself
to tell a joke.
came in late.
you know,
make it up, I guess. Um probably the
joke was at Goldman's expense. At which
point Lloyd leaned forward on the table
and he said "Let me tell you how I would
have made that joke funny."
And the worst part was he then made a
very, very good joke that was a lot
funnier than what I had just said.
You're supposed to you should put the
punchline at the end, not at the
beginning. That's right. Wait, can we
actually talk about what the joke was?
The context of the joke? Cuz I remember
it well. Go on. So Tracy So the whole
reason that the um
that the media roundtable happened was
that apparently Lloyd was supposed to be
in London for or sorry, in China for
some reason. And something happened like
um someone from the UK was there and
Lloyd's schedule had got changed. And so
they at the last second they're like,
"Oh, maybe some reporters will bring
in." And then the joke that Tracy made
were you going to go there to recruit
princelings for Goldman Sachs, which at
the time was, you know, one of those
scandals out there.
was at Goldman's expense.
which is don't try to be funnier than
Lloyd cuz he'll beat you at it every
time. But Lloyd, congratulations on the
book.
speaking with you. One thing I learned
from the book is that you're spending
your time trading now. And when I read
that, I sort of had a vision of you on
your phone on Robinhood trading like
zero-day options or something like that.
What are you actually trading? I I
to Goldman. I would be on Robinhood
except except for the history. Now, to
me that's um
one of the occupational hazards of my uh
of my prior life is that um
I watch markets all the time. I watch
markets at night while I'm asleep. And
so I know the price of everything all
the time. And I trade, but it's not like
when you say I'm spending you you spend
your time trading. No, it's just
background noise. While I'm having a
conversation with in my in my in my life
with people I you know, hang around with
sometimes in business, it is not
considered to rude that if you're
talking to somebody, you're not looking
at them but looking at a screen or a
phone or something like that. That that
that that's that's kind of okay. So it's
like
doing that, when somebody says, "What
percentage of your time?"
you trying it's like listening to music.
You can listen to music while you're
doing something else. So you it adds up
to more than 100%.
Um what are you trying No, I'm not We're
not here for stock recommendations, but
like what's interesting markets and such
that you feel compelled to click buttons
and try to anticipate moves.
of a macro I mean I came up through you
know what what would be we call them you
know the macro markets the large things
interest rates you know government
policy
uh uh fiscal you know the sort of stuff
that kind of moves all assets together
although there's always differences. So
that's my background, but I you know so
you know themes I mean
everybody now is in the is in tech
because if you weren't in tech you'd be
bankrupt because you'd be wrong for all
this time. So everybody is given how the
markets have moved so sort of
consistently for a very long time.
I could tell you what everybody is kind
of in and of course I could tell you
who's getting hurt in any given part
when it get when it gets upset for a
day, but I'm in
probably things that wouldn't surprise
you, but maybe the biggest surprise is
that I'm all in. You know so like I'm
always 100% in equities now. Wow.
Yeah, risk assets. That's
That's what you say risk assets.
so after you retired from Goldman some
people were surprised that you didn't
choose to go into politics like some of
your peers. Yeah, well, explain that.
Like why why did you You took a proper
break when you left Goldman? Yeah, well,
let me tell you if they if if somebody
gave me something overwhelmingly
interesting and fun I might have done
it.
My last five predecessor five of my last
six predecessors either went into the
cabinet except for Jon Corzine he became
senator New Jersey, but you know you
know Bob Rubin and
and Hank Paulson Treasury secretaries
and and whatnot. I came out in the
I stopped in 2018 and end of 2000 so the
second half of the uh
of the first of Trump one.
The beginning of Trump one, you know,
the economic team was Gary Cohn and
Steve Mnuchin, all ex ex-Goldman. So, I
think I think we had had enough of that
and I certainly didn't want to I didn't
want to like add myself to the list at
that point. And so, kind of drifted on,
then I drifted through COVID and I say,
you know, I kind of like this.
You know, not setting alarm clock in the
morning, Saturday afternoon having lunch
with people, and not having to go to the
airport on a Saturday afternoon so I
could get to so I can get to Beijing
first thing Monday morning. And so, it's
it's it's it's easy to get used to
sloth.
So, here's the thing, I get not taking
some big job after retirement. Like, I
totally get that. I get wanting to trade
and that sounds like stimulating and
intellectually, you know, interesting
and fun and so forth. Here's what I
don't get. Why don't you tweet more? And
the reason I asked that is like because
like I'm addicted to posting and a lot
of people in your shoes or at your
level, they feel this impulse to like
always weigh in on everything. And
Twitter's a great place to do it. I did
for a while. I know, but never that
much. And what I want to know is like
Oh, no, no. I I was I was fighting with
people I was fighting with people that
had subpoena power. Okay, so how do you
resist the temptation to keep doing it?
Cuz I would like to know how to post
less. So, how do you resist the urge to
chime in on everything?
management business.
And so, the risk reward of certain
things. So, for example, you know,
retired.
When you
when when things are going badly, you
quit you can't leave my job. And by the
way, we had the crisis of the century
every 4 years and most of the time
they'd accuse us of and probably you,
accuse us of causing it. Falsely, of
course.
I pretend to have forgotten that.
Um,
but when things are going well, you
know, when things are badly, you can't
leave. When things are going well, you
don't want to leave, which is why in my
line of work
everybody leaves in distress.
……（中部抽样）……
You know, you get fired, something comes
occasionally, but I mostly tweet quit
risk management knowledge and intuitions
uh cowardice you might call. You know,
the line. I would fight with you know,
you get a good reaction some you know,
say, "Well, you know,
your career and you know, I read the
and then you retired in 2018 and it
that's never going to be repeated?
when I started
literally like 1982 and 1983, middle of
imagine Russia being normal like a place
it it was it was capitalism on steroids.
invested a lot of time and effort. You
because it's a Chinese
each other. That we were going
undone. I think I would have said
polarization of the East and the West.
governments of the world were
digital notations, it suddenly became
money, for example, to
as people realized that, and it became
can even go case by data point by data
you know, emphasized now because now
go again because
have three for the whole thing? And then
know, there's incredible the Fed opening
that would even be possible today in the
you know, would you think it would be
compulsion to do it. People may
banking system.
governments don't lend money to people,
distressed,
And so, it's very very hard to get money
recession because it was very hard to
down, fiscal spending, the banks are in
is because the US government is very
than what we saw in 2008 when we had
you don't you don't know. Nobody knows
hypothetically.
so much staring at the abyss like it
the rails. And that we really would have
we owe each other money. There's a daisy
going to pay me until I pay you. So,
You need somebody with a big balance
because it's just in security that
fortune you know,
these things
can turn your And even a Treasury bill
progress and zero growth. And so, what
And over time, you start to think, you
mortgage? And blah, blah, blah. And it
could that have happened again so soon?
know, we've had a lot of stress in
money. Is there anything about the
Yeah.
because if everyone thought it would be
know better, they're also surprised,
so they're less liquid and probably
a mark-to-market, is it reliable? Is it
um record equity prices
assets they invest in yet it hasn't
credit, private asset, private equity as
illiquidity to them. I'm not sure, you
say
But, the consequence
individuals lose money, and not be
So, one of
getting is adequate or not, I just said,
Have some trepidation about extending
adjacent insurance companies, which is
the assets, but where some of these
Goldman was famous for was its very
moment on a day-to-day basis for
lot of risk. I mean
we have very very big M&amp;A franchise,
time uh because we had commitments to
risks. So, you know, what do we do?
get out of the same stuff. Um, we always
market. And very religiously, we had a
asset's worth more." And we'd say,
that. And then when things started to
we didn't have a view of what was going
People come to us to to buy from them
direction, getting too long and getting
badly, but what we did in the lead-up.
on AAA companies
want to have too much exposure to
sell you the insurance don't charge you
you have to have all the time. You can't
New York City, how are you feeling? Is
especially,
you know, that's why I love the book and
hooked up and uh you know, and and and
people who are smart and ambitious want
Francisco, which is a tech community. A
lot of reasons for it. Like you get to
because we New York has an estate has an
know, you know. On the Miami thing, I
Stupid.
Um you know, and um but I just said no.
you know
anything. Holding back comment right
sort of big one that that worries you
it down.
something for a while.
some software.
an L M N O or P for a dollar. Now if
15 [snorts] seconds and did about two
when you hit the wrong key. And somebody
checks,
where there's not a problem except once
loud. Somebody would say buy and you
room.
You would hear it. Now, nobody hears
with technology,
know, prior to
what could an industrial accident be?
died.
progress for you. So, not only is there
trying to cause Yes, but you know
safeguards that you build, the more
that AI is going to become more and more
I mean, the greatest technologists today
you know,
judgment and reasoning. And I'm sure
massage therapists and the personal
whatever stage of progress we're at.
but it's not without stresses and
so there'll be some stress and
four days a week, Marx's ideology. Who
stuff. And maybe we go to a three-day
they have to work four hours that day.
it's going to happen. But the idea
that? Ticker tape. Those were the
make sure that the confirmation you were
I practice law, you used to have to go
progress, it's going to happen, and I I
monitor the fax machine just in case the
come a bunch of white collar jobs are
some taxation and the the few the
I pay a good chunk of my salary
it's like not the end of the world. I
marginal tax jurisdiction.
competitive and they just want to win. I
still motivated to work. Thank goodness
two major things. It has to create
a pretty good job in creating wealth.
and getting them off the balance sheet
the allocation of it. The The allocation
obviously progressive taxation is one of
now. Public housing when I grew up
disincentivize people from working. So,
uh you took away my options from the
you know, you
it. So, bravo. Keep on going. I'll give
thing it mirrored was the rise of
feels the same. Everything kind of feels
you know, the cool kids in town were,
we're always ringing out efficiencies
get gated and it's not working out so
is they can't take risk. They could tell
will do these simulations and stuff, but
people 100 years from now
thinking that we're, you know, we're
you imagine they carried their cell
persist. I think they'll be create
publish another song like that, but will
like willingness to take risk, judgment.
Within a given bank, you know, there's
other bank with the where the next
the firm are engineers.
it already is engineering to in
it's a millisecond game.
moving at the speed of light, getting
interpreting the question a little bit
finance deals, sometimes the biggest,
organization, one of the things that I
……（接近结尾）……
And if it was an easy market to make
money in and they weren't doing a good
job and didn't do well, didn't matter
that they did well. You know, in other
words, we looked at the firm as a whole,
people had to look out for each other.
Uh and it was place was run as a
partnership. That's very helpful. If you
have a firm full of people who are
owners,
everyone is looking around what the
people next to them are doing and if
they see bad behavior or something's not
right, they demand information about the
whole firm, not just their narrow area,
and they give you opinions even when you
don't want to hear it.
And so and guess what? It's a little bit
slower and harder to run that
organization, but I think you get a
better you get a better outcome.
Uh now that the book is officially
published, it's been a whole 18 hours I
suppose since it's been published, but
is there anything with the benefit of of
that 18 hours of of daylight and
reminiscence um
that you wish you had included in the
book and that you left out? I want the
the really good part.
had you know Bloomberg was very nice
enough uh
Mike in in Bloomberg, the man, not
necessarily the company, hosted an event
last night and I thought of a Bloomberg.
There was a story that I told that at
the end of it, I I could tell you the
story, but
Okay. When I first got a when I you know
when I first a million years ago when
the first Bloomberg terminals came out
and I was a fairly junior person and
they would they put a Bloomberg terminal
in front of me that about 900 people
were supposed to share, but it was right
in front of me
and everybody was walking by it like
they were walking Remember the movie
2001 a Space
obelisk?
everyone's doing this. And everybody was
doing that. And I finally figured out
how to use it. I put yellow paste-ins on
it with my schedule and numbers that I
had to look out for. In other words, I
couldn't turn I didn't know how to turn
on the machine, but I was using it as a
as a bulletin board. And then somebody
calls up and he said
uh Lloyd found line so-and-so. Who is
it? Bloomberg.
So, I said uh I'll call I go call him
back. He said, "No, no, it's Bloomberg
the person, not Bloomberg the company."
And it was Michael Bloomberg and he
calls me and he called up and I get on
the phone and he said "I noticed you had
We noticed you haven't turned on your
machine."
camera?" Now, he said, "Well, we could
tell Digital surveillance very Yeah, we
turned it in and I said and so I said,
"Well and so you're calling me?" He
goes, "Oh, no, we do the way here and
and [snorts] I don't know if they do it
today, but in early Bloomberg he had all
the senior people in the organization
every day they had to call five
customers each one and call them and
discuss." And I said I said, you know, I
wow.
Um I promise I'll turn on machine. I
probably about 2 years later I figured
out how to do it, but I'll turn on the
machine, but I said "Isn't that a very
um inefficient use of your time?"
Because here you are calling me and I
wasn't a senior uh senior guys. And he
goes, "No, no, we learn a lot about the
business." I realize now that was a very
stupid comment. Because here I am, first
of all, everybody on our floor knew that
Mike had called and that he cared. The
guy whose name was on the door cared
about whether we're using or not. And
not only laterally across that
dimension, everybody knew, but here I am
35 years later telling the story.
And so now you're hearing about it. That
was a very good use of 3 minutes of
Michael Bloomberg that I'm telling that
story
of that that his care and and and so to
me, I know how Bloomberg got built. And
so that was the lesson I learned. So I
told that story and then I said, you
know, Mike,
this book is so good and has so many
good stories that that one didn't even
make it in the book. It's on the cutting
room floor.
If it sells well, maybe volume two or
volume three.
Well, uh we went a couple minutes over,
but that was a it was a it was a good
story.
for Bloomberg. So thank you.
Lloyd Blankfein, thank you so much.
Thank you very much.