TITLE: From Note-Taking App to AI Workspace: The Simon Last Interview
CHANNEL: No Priors Podcast
DURATION_S: 1743  DENSITY: brief  REQ summary=2 core=3
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-12T10:00:04+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1dYThQgOyZU
SHA256: 2ae2e966cb9cb604f7b5765919aad9371eca126352251c633a248a6fb6ff0b21

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2023] 2023 is when we
  [2022] 2022.
  [1000] like a 100 or 1,000x engineer if you use
  [95%] Slack. 95% of the personal emails and

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today I'm here with Simon Last,
co-founder at Notion. We talk about
their new vision for Notion in the AI
age as a platform for humans and agents
to collaborate, how the engineering and
product org at Notion is changing,
Welcome, Simon. Hey Simon, thanks for
doing this. Yeah, of course. Yeah, it's
really fun to be here. Notion's at
scale, amazing platform, lots of users.
You did start quite a while ago. I think
of Notion as one of the companies that
has really like raced AI quite
aggressively. I was told you first got
your hands on GPT-4 at a company offsite
in Mexico.
Is that true? What is the origin story
of like starting to work on this stuff?
Yeah, I think Yeah, that year, that was
2022.
I I've been watching, you know, what's
going on. In general, I've just been
like super curious about the technology
and
fascinated to to try everything and
think about like how we can apply it. It
wasn't until I played with GPT-4 that it
it became really, really real. So, you
know, we
And when we got access to it, it was it
was sort of like a a proto chat GPT like
interface.
Um
And my co-founder Ivan and I both both
got access and it was just immediately
clear, like I would say two big things.
One is that it was just
pretty smart. It could follow reasonably
complicated instructions. It could write
things for you, could edit things. And
and the second big thing was that
at the scope of its knowledge was
extremely interesting. Super, super deep
like
and and broad world knowledge. When we
played with it, it became just instantly
clear to both of us, like, okay, the the
time is now to start thinking about how
to apply this. It's only going to get
better. We're talking about Mexico,
GPT-4. You guys saw it was like clearly
the time. Did you start with like a
particular vision of like
what you should obviously be able to do
with AI in Notion, or did you start
pulling people from different teams, or
recruiting people and say, like, let's
experiment. How did you begin? I think
we immediately had a long-term and a
short-term vision, I would say. The the
I'll start with the short-term one. The
the thing that was immediately obvious
was, oh, it could be like a writing
assistant. Mhm. Um so it it could be in
your document. You can like select some
text, have it rewrite it. You could have
it write text for you, maybe look
something up, and then uh you know,
give you like like sources or more
information. So that was the thing that
we immediately like like got to work on,
and you know, we sort of started a tiger
team around it, and then we were able to
launch it in like 2 or 3 months after
that. And then the long-term vision that
we immediately had was like, oh, the
thing that looks like it may be possible
is more of like a general assistant.
So,
what if you could just give it all the
tools
inside Notion that a human would have be
able to like create its own databases,
query and manipulate them, create
documents, edit them, uh and sort of
weave all of these things together to do
like a longer-range task. And so we we
sort of
uh immediately started on both. The the
short-term one we were able to ship very
quickly, and then the long-term one
didn't really work yet. And so that took
much longer to get working. Are there
like specific
first launch of the AI-specific Notion
features and products was when? Last
year? No, it was uh it was uh February
2023 is when we
launched, yeah. My timelines are wrong.
Um are there like a few um specific
learnings or breakthrough moments you
think since beginning to release that
are interesting? Yeah, I mean, there's
been it's it's it's been a slog over
many years or over all the years at this
point with with Yeah. With with many
many learnings. I I would say yeah, that
I mean, I just to give you a timeline of
the arc of what what we shipped is, you
know, so
the first thing was our our writing
system. Uh we called it AI Writer. Um
that's the first thing we launched. Uh
it was easiest to get working cuz it's
like single-step task, rewriting editing
text. Uh there's no like retrieval
aspect. It was just like raw access to
the model to write text. Uh
um to write the text. The next uh the
next big thing that we uh that we uh
immediately started working on was uh
Q&amp;A. Doing a semantic index of the
entire workspace and then letting you
ask a question and and it can I give you
an answer that's that's grounded in the
sources. That was also immediately
obvious to us that that'd be super
useful. And so we started to work on
that. That one we launched in I think it
was October 2023.
So we started a beta before then but
then that would our our GA was in
October. That was a much bigger effort
to get it working obviously. We weren't
just like like plugging in the LLM. It
was actually doing this like real-time
updating index. Right. We had to get
much more serious about the
evals and the quality there as well. The
the Q&amp;A has been a
a multi-year journey. Basically what
what we did is
as soon as we got the Notion index
working
it it was obvious that okay, we should
index everything else as well. And and
so we index like Slack and Google Drive
and
we're launching new ones uh
on a on a regular cadence and and and
now we have a
I would say fairly complete index.
problems that you know, those products
natively have not solved perfectly yet.
So how did you think about taking that
on? I don't know if that's like an
offensive thing to other product teams
but like it's not working yet.
has been
something we talk about a lot because
it's like
you know, it's like almost like what
right do we even have to do this? But
but it turns out that
most of companies are pretty bad at
making their indexes.
Somehow it's honestly kind of baffled us
a little bit. Right.
dealing with all of this and you know,
working with the teams trying to get it
working
is there's a little bit of just AI
pilled savviness that's pretty
important. And then and then I think
most of it is honestly just like a bit
of like like craft and attention to
detail. I think like
in in particular with this like indexing
retrieval stuff in order to really get
it working
you you have to be quite empirical and
iterative and actually be like like
trying queries. Like you know, you only
like each each uh data source is a
little bit special. Like you know,
you can't just apply a one-size-fits-all
to like querying Slack versus querying
Google Drive, let's say. They're they're
completely different kinds of
information. And we found that there's
just a little bit of like like craft and
love that's going into it in terms of
like actually trying a bunch of
different queries, actually using it
every day, and constantly
iterating and rethinking and and and
tuning how the retrieval works. How did
you um think about the diversity of how
people organize their workspaces and
just their I mean, even Notion is not
use of it is not homogeneous, right?
Like I'm probably part of
15 workspaces as an investor. And so I
look at them and I'm like, well, mine's
a mess and these people are really
organized and the workflows reflected in
how their Notion works. Yeah, totally. I
would say, I mean, the interesting thing
is that with embeddings it almost
doesn't matter as much Mhm. anymore. The
the AI doesn't really care what the what
the the tree structure is.
For example, the all all the AI cares
about is that there's a snippet of text
that has the the context you need and
that it can retrieve it. And so
actually, we kind of advise people now,
like don't worry as much about
organization. Just just find a way to
get it all piped in and like like throw
it in there. You still make decisions
that could change performance quite a
bit, like chunking strategy or whatever,
right?
……（中部抽样）……
important. But but that's sort of not
in independent of their their particular
technical challenge given how different
iteration. Yeah.
of retrieval, um Yeah, there's a a lot
Notion and rebuilt your harnesses. Yeah,
harness probably every 6 months or so.
like like products have been
a lot of companies get wrong is just
sticking with it. You really do have to
and the technology is and then designing
it basically means you have to rewrite
you know, you get to get to restart and
a a we're about to release a new version
already thinking about the one after
just like how does Notion as an
power of um
harness
extremely true. Yeah, I mean I yeah,
ambition of what I even consider
most dramatically changed in how you
last 2 3 years? Woof, yeah, I mean it's
kind of went through multiple eras.
into sort of
uh but but it wasn't really until the
to
year. That was a huge unlock. Like I
getting these agents to end-to-end, you
pretty significant thought in terms of
Um
ambitious about what you're building and
writing it. And then the flip side is if
should look like at Notion? Like size,
effect is that, you know, everyone's
Um and your output increasingly depends
fundamental thing that's happening. And
seen that much impact on the the team
for the most part. Um I think
I think it's still true. Um maybe
Yeah, the main thing is to just like
median engineering organization versus
think the the gap is bigger. You can be
the gap is much bigger. Like the the the
extremely increased. One impact it's had
more messy and chaotic. I would say like
way more prototypes. Uh you know,
Git repo. Uh they call it uh the design
uh with a bunch of like UI primitives
has like an agent in there and like um
like super high fidelity prototypes Mhm.
like like you know, like like how would
been deployed. And that sort of thing is
just like a little bit more chaotic,
you draw a line somewhere about like
risk of data loss over here or and not?
all the pull requests. And and I would
like larger and and and more complex.
much better tested and we can demand
PR that like hasn't been
a pretty high degree of confidence that
by by saying the thing you want. You're
is the change I'm trying to make and
enlisting the agent to help you with
doesn't quite exist yet, um what's the
next year or two that are still
We struggled for a few years to build an
of worked, but then
we we tried to to build an agent I would
we finally launched it last fall so like
agent that has access to everything in
like the
it's like like fully shipped. Last
our personal agent. Uh, so it's pretty
access to all the all all the things
It can update things, create documents.
uh, that we just launched uh, uh, last
create a new custom agent, give it a
default, it doesn't have access to
then once you do, it can actually run
to its own database, uh, to file tasks,
start
That's one use case. Another one, you
reports. And then and then let it search
represents some work or job, some some
excited about this going forward is is,
of
allowing it to basically bootstrap
integration that we don't support yet.
agents are actually the broader
to.
agent. Um, and and and and code is just
logic. The thing that's really exciting
is that it can bootstrap a capability.
it.
can do that. Given you have a you know,
and platform players that are at even
people from the labs, the Microsoft
cross attempt to integrate and index.
imagine that Notion agents are best at
would sort of say there's the labs, and
maybe like infrastructure. In terms of
models. We think and our customers they
They're always uh releasing new
other. Um so,
access to all the best models um anytime
plays into that as well?
There's like the four different Chinese
and we're going to do all four for sure.
they're and and they're way cheaper than
where where you'd want that. And we want
think of our role as sort of
creating uh really high-quality
conveniently get access to them.
really good for for humans and for the
it's something that's that's very needed
way. You were describing
You give the agents access to the tools
like where it's like useful or even like
still pretty useful.
a challenge to sort of
that's a new thing that that didn't
also made APIs convenient for humans
is the agent. At first, that was
uses this this crazy JSON format for
the agent. But we basically took on that
designed just really convenient APIs for
looks like the default normal markdown,
And the models are really good at it. It
And then for databases, we we use
in SQLite. Which also works really well.
like like took that on as an engineering
extremely convenient APIs that the
understand
say it's a it's a combination of just
around and like like noticing, "Oh, it's
smaller?" And then a little bit of just
are being trained on and what's the
would naturally be good at? And And like
what would be the convenient efficient
a lot of playing around.
ongoing eval.
talk to you. Yeah, I Actually, that is
can you can script and scale the access
Actually, I know you do because you
can't block the agents while we're doing
working on a new prototype. And so, I
And then, yeah, my setup these days is
the the CLI tools. Um they're they're
in the CLI, so. And then, yeah, my my
these days is essentially to just have
example, like every night before I go to
make sure that I've given it enough
so, I've I've maximized
nights
think it was 13 days straight uh
just basically working through like
of the night at least multiple times
it
it one last time before I bed and just
agents? Like do you have a workflow
all the time, so it's it it has all the
like
launch was was going and like like like
And then for I I have many custom agents
triage agent. So, it has access to all
and it just uh wakes up every day and
to learn my preferences. Do you actually
is you make the agent and then you give
memory Mhm. and you let it edit that
uh look at my emails and then interview
propose things that it thinks it should
essentially generate like a list of
couple days I was sort of like like like
approval entirely and it it just
trust.
work stuff. Like it's it's mostly in
see at all. And so it's just a waste of
stuff I need to see. I've got lots of
that I built that
and uh
……（接近结尾）……
pre frequently. So, like uh uh for
example, like a month ago, I did a I did
a hackathon with uh the the people team
and sort of sort of got them. The The
people team's been amazing. They're
actually one of the
the highest adopters of custom agents.
You know, they do all these kind of
workflows in like Slack and Notion, kind
of like like manual work like that. And
um
and yeah, I would say yeah, like like
people are super excited to
to try it and sort of like like maybe
just need a like a little bit of a push
in terms of intuition and like like
getting them started. Um but then
Honestly, I've been super impressed.
Like I I I think the concept is
like kind of intuitive. Sort of like
like once you get once you get past sort
of a little bit of the technical barrier
of like what is a prompt and like what
is the agent and how does it get
triggered and woken up and like like how
does that even work? But then
once you sort of get past that, I think
it's actually a very human-like
interface. Yeah, maybe the maybe the
biggest barrier is actually just getting
people to try and assuming it's going to
work at all. Right. Yeah. Yeah. You and
Ivan originally met
on the internet, Tools for Thought
community. Um
it feels like
you know, the tools we have for thinking
are very different now. Has your like
core conception of Notion changed over
the last few years because of all the AI
stuff?
Like what what is the what what thinking
does the tool do for you? Should agents
do for you? What do you get to do? Yeah,
I mean, it's I would say changed quite a
lot. I mean,
broadly speaking,
before AI, our our our our goal was to
create the best tool for humans
to directly perform their work. Mhm. And
then now the goal is to create the best
tool for humans to
manage agents to do the work for them.
That's a big shift. That's a pretty big
shift. Uh it's it's pretty fundamental.
Um but it it turns out that you need
most of the same primitives. Uh
you actually all the primitives that we
built are actually still extremely
useful. It's it's more that we just
needed some some new primitives like
like representing what is an agent and
you know how to interact with your pages
and databases, but you know you still
need the same primitives. You still need
a document. It's an unstructured way to
you know to write stuff. Uh agents love
to write markdown
documents, so
it's still very relevant. And you still
need a database. It's um
you still need a structured data. You
know, if you're working with your your
swarm of like 100 background coding
agents, you don't want to have 100 chat
threads. Uh you want a Kanban board.
It's you know the same as before. Makes
sense you still need the the
coordination structure. What is one
thing that just because you're ahead of
the on this stuff and then trying to
figure out how to bring
you know, Notion and then users along
with you. What is something that's
really changed about um how you
personally like build even in the last 6
months? I mean it's completely changed.
I haven't written code
since like last summer. I don't type
code anymore. Mhm. Yeah, it's it's it's
completely shifted. I mean we went from
humans type all the code
to like we're still typing, but we like
tab complete to sort of like we talk to
the agent and it sort of does little
tasks for us, but we are still in the
outer loop. And then now it's more like
I I design a end-to-end task that
involves like making some change and
end-to-end verifying it. And then I'm
just the the outer you know the outer
verifier sort of like like
double-checking at the very end that it
that's correct. And if it's going off
the rails kind of like like monitoring
it. Um so it's a com- it's a complete
shift. It's you know, I'm I'm now like
the agent manager
instead of the coder. Amazing. Well, um
thanks Simon. This has been a super
great discussion about how we're all
going to become agent managers and uh uh
hopefully in Notion. Cool. Yeah.
Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
if you want to see our faces. Follow the
show on Apple [music] Podcasts, Spotify,
or wherever you listen. That way you get
a new episode every week. And sign up
for emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priors.com. [music]