TITLE: Anthropic vs. the Pentagon: Inside the Battle Over A.I. Warfare
CHANNEL: The Daily
DURATION_S: 1704  DENSITY: brief  REQ summary=2 core=3
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-09T14:20:40+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FSNexK7syFE
SHA256: 14fdb105b5e6b76c3c32f76e2af375bb22842cf60e86186d04ffab1e6d2612a7

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] AI might have a 1% or 2% error rate, but
  [2%] AI might have a 1% or 2% error rate, but

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
From The New York Times, I'm [music]
Natalie Kitroeff. This is The Daily.
escalated, it's become increasingly
clear [music]
just how much the US military has been
relying on sophisticated artificial
the Defense Department's bitter fight
with the AI giant Anthropic over [music]
who controls that technology one of the
most high-stakes strategic battles
Today, my colleague Sheera Frenkel on
the standoff between the Trump
administration and Anthropic, and what
it really reveals about the future
It's Monday, March 9th.
Sheera, it's wonderful to have you back
on The Daily.
progressed, we've been hearing more and
more about the US using AI in its
attacks on Iran. It's one of the first
times really where this technology is
very clearly having a practical
application for the US military. We are
seeing it in action. And at the same
time, in the background, there has been
this ongoing bubbling battle over the
use of that technology.
So, we're going to get into the
specifics of all of that, but first, can
you just lay out what this fight is
fundamentally about?
one company and this particular moment
with the Pentagon. It's really about the
future of warfare and the role that AI
is going to play in war. Right now, in
the Middle East, as the US looks for
targets to strike, it is using
Anthropic's technology to analyze
intelligence, analyze satellite imagery,
and figure out where it wants to hit. AI
can analyze data for the military faster
than a human being possibly could. It's
proving its worthiness every single day.
And so, in a sense, these private
technology companies based in Silicon
Valley and the Pentagon need each other
more than ever.
But there's a question about how they're
going to work together going forward.
robot wars of, you know, AI-backed
weapons fighting AI-backed weapons.
They're trying to figure out who gets to
say what's safe and what's not. So, on
one side, you have these private Silicon
Valley companies. You have Anthropic,
which is the first AI company that was
authorized to work on classified US
military systems. You have OpenAI, which
is this behemoth of AI companies. You
have long-standing companies like Google
and Microsoft, which have AI divisions.
So, you really have a number of very
powerful companies in the Valley that
want to do business with the Pentagon
and are, in some cases, doing some
business with the Pentagon, figuring out
how to navigate that relationship.
And on the other side, you have the
Pentagon, which is thinking about this
global AI arms race against China, Iran,
and Russia, and how America is going to
fare in that.
can you just explain how the Pentagon is
broadly making use of this technology,
what function it plays?
what's called SIGINT, or signals
intelligence. What I mean by that is
that the military at any given time is
ingesting an incredible amount of data.
Text messages, postings on social media
pages, phone calls, all of this is
intelligence that's gathered by the
military and then used to make critical
decisions. Now, in the past, there was a
room full of human beings that would
have to sit there and analyze all this
intelligence.
But now, we have AI, and this is exactly
what AI is really good at. It ingests
data and then it tells you, "Here's an
important note you should take out of
this. Here's my summary. Here's one
phone call that's better than all the
other phone calls that you should
actually be listening to. And so, this
is critically important right now in the
Middle East where we're seeing this AI
technology being used. But, spinning
forward, it's only going to become more
important as AI gets better and better
and the military wants to integrate it
into more parts of its weapons arsenal.
happening at a very important time. Just
orient us, Shira. How did this whole
fight start?
positive, optimistic way in that the
Pentagon issues a call out last year
saying it wants to introduce AI. It
invites all these AI companies to
basically come into the military and
show them how they can be helpful. How
can the Pentagon, the Department of
Defense start integrating AI into its
own systems? And they immediately get a
lot of takers. You've got Silicon
Valley's biggest AI companies, Google,
xAI, Anthropic, and OpenAI, all raise
their hands and say we want to
participate, we want to work with the
Pentagon. And of all the AI companies
that begin working with the Pentagon,
Anthropic emerges as kind of the best
and the most seamlessly integrated into
the Pentagon systems. It's working with
Palantir, this data analytics company.
It's one of the only ones that is
approved to work on classified systems.
And so, people across the DoD tell us
that it really quickly became absolutely
fundamental to their work and made their
lives easier.
because from what I know of Anthropic,
this is a company that brands itself as
the socially responsible AI company, the
company that emphasizes AI safety a lot.
And so, it's just kind of interesting to
me to hear that they were the first ones
to be so embedded within the US
military.
This is a company that was founded by
people who left OpenAI because they
wanted a safer AI company. They said
they wanted more safeguards. I mean,
this is their entire premise and how
they draw employees to work there.
What they also are, however, is a
company that really believes in working
with the government. We've seen their
top executive say that they think AI can
make our country safer. It can help the
US military defend against adversaries.
They are, by all accounts, deeply
patriotic as well. And so, while the two
things don't seem to naturally go hand
in hand, I think in the minds of their
chief executives, at least from people
that are sitting in the room with them,
they say, "Yes, they wanted to work with
the government and they thought they
could be the ones to do it safely."
in the story all sides are working well
together. When do things start to
change?
when the Secretary of Defense, Pete
Hoekstra, comes out with this pretty big
memo.
And he tells the military, he tells
everyone across Silicon [clears throat]
Valley that things are about to change.
AI is critical for the future of
warfare. China's developing AI weapons,
Russia's developing AI weapons. If the
US wants to be competitive, AI has to be
at the center of everything, from
autonomous weapons like drones or
fighter jets that have no pilots to data
systems.
And this kicks off a need for new
contracts with all the AI companies, and
they do what companies do. Their lawyers
forth with the Pentagon's lawyers trying
to figure out how they can come to some
sort of new agreement about this.
that they're trying to figure out, but
it's all sort of happening quietly
behind the scenes. When all of a sudden,
something happens that ends up
escalating tensions [music] between
Anthropic and the Pentagon.
[clears throat]
News reports emerge that Anthropic's
Claude technology was used as part of
the capture of Nicolas Maduro,
Venezuela's leader.
was this surprising moment to find out
that an AI model was used to do
something like that. Like this very on
the ground operation that involved boots
on the ground and lots of planning, AI
was in the middle of it.
surprising, confusing for people who
work at Anthropic who did not know if
their technology was used in the Majuro
raid. It even came up in a meeting that
happened between one employee at
Anthropic and another employee at
Palantir. The Anthropic guy asked, "Do
you know anything about this? You know,
is our technology being used?" It was
not something that they appeared aware
of.
But whether or not Anthropic's
technology was used at the Pentagon, the
fact that a private Silicon Valley
company would even be raising questions
about this was seen as inappropriate.
You had the Secretary of Defense Hagel
telling people around him that he didn't
like Anthropic even asking questions
……（中部抽样）……
about how their technology was being
of sensitive negotiations happening
Pentagon, this was kind of the kindling
sees this inquiry by this employee at
challenging the military's use of the
that this private company that's talked
impose its own rules, its own
the Pentagon. And in the midst of all
suddenly becomes a crisis. It suddenly
between lawyers to big public statements
itself?
limit to specific ways in which the
They want it codified into their
technology will not be used for the mass
not be used for autonomous weapons.
the rationale here?
foremost, they're not sure that AI is
AI might have a 1% or 2% error rate, but
a target to hit with a missile, that
death.
Anthropic's AI was used to hit a target
this company has an absolute PR
Americans are contending with this very
know, in science fiction books they
chose the wrong target and humans were
And, you know, thirdly, they've got to
who work there are not comfortable with
work there are worried about the use of
lot of the people that they paid a lot
employees are very valuable, right?
these people, and you don't want to risk
most highly sought-after engineers
a lot. We're talking about contracts
dollars to acquire some of these people.
not wanting to do this. What about the
there and saying, "Hey, you are a
these calls. Whoever decides that AI is
sitting here, in the Pentagon, in the
these calls, and really, how dare you?"
to tell us how to build our weapon
our role. That's our job.
going to implement all lawful uses of
argument that Anthropic is really asking
So things escalate and escalate and they
Secretary of Defense Pete Hexeth and the
Amodei.
Defense Secretary Pete Hexeth today as
blacklist that company Anthropic from
company
to sign a document ensuring the military
AI model.
time to compromise. Work it out, figure
deadline or we're going to take some
threat?
pretty opposed to one another. One is
chain risk and this is a a designation
for foreign companies who produce
is not safe for national security
So they would be essentially saying,
dangerous as a company for national
can use you."
this Defense Production Act which labels
security that they have to work with the
I mean the government is saying we're
comply or inflict a ton of pain on this
does business with them, essentially.
across Silicon Valley. These companies
hate each other, suddenly come together,
Anthropic. The AI community stands
And I think of all the voices that
Altman, who's the chief executive of
along with Anthropic. These are a bunch
his company wasn't safe and started
lost between the leadership at OpenAI
even stands up, and he says, "No, no, I
transparency that The New York Times is
its models.
tweeting in support of Anthropic.
redlines. Anthropic's executives, their
minutes minutes before the deadline
the Pentagon trying to figure this all
14 minutes pass,
clash between the US Department of
has ordered the federal government to
firm refused to lift guard.
going to [music] be booted, banned from
with the US military will not be allowed
Anthropic. [music]
dictate how the United States fights
pocket.
make a deal.
directly with Sam Altman, the chief
negotiating himself directly with the
got exactly the deal that Anthropic
decided to take a very different
Okay, Shira, you said that Sam Altman
Pentagon in these negotiations. What do
entire time for certain things to be
wanted established that their technology
ways that were important to the company.
don't need that type of language into
write our own guardrails, our own safety
Engineers call this writing into the
companies do all the time. They update
into the stacks, guardrails that they
saying, "It's not on you, it's on us.
safety measures we have as OpenAI, we
things, where the company is in control
models, why that wasn't good enough for
argument that when you write something
You can write something else the next
get changed daily. They could even be
was not enough to stop the Pentagon from
the stocks today, but tomorrow we're
that this kind of guardrail is much more
doesn't guarantee that the limits will
winning, it sounds like.
to, they are happy they got OpenAI on
may run into problems long-term is the
and how this is really brought to the
weapons, AI and the government. Is AI
government thinking about it in a
debate is now in the public
extent to which this administration was
American AI company, that has to have
the industry, right?
that's that's terrifying. If they can
chain risk or to use this Defense
stop them from doing it to any tech
get their way?" And so, there's there's
between Silicon Valley and and the
Trump administration, and we've really
week or so.
net out? Because obviously OpenAI has
contract, but at the same time, it's
come out of this for Anthropic. This
engineer types, but before all this, it
general public. And now, all of a
national conversation.
Anthropic's Claude technology shoots to
time in the company's history.
name that's synonymous with security,
in a moment where so many people are
people are talking about the company,
company that values safety and
might be appealing.
Anthropic is really emerging as a winner
and minds of engineers.
its guns and did what it said it was
And here in Silicon Valley, engineers
work for them. And so, that could net
a lot of blowback across Silicon Valley
the Pentagon.
San Francisco holding up a sign saying
these companies voicing both support for
that pushback from engineers has
had to meet with his own employees more
to seek a safe contract with the
kind of internal PR work among people at
like with his own employees.
mistake rushing too quickly into a deal
actually sought new language now around
and other assurances so that his
have been in the last few days about
where this stands now is that you have
companies basically battling it out over
you have Sam Altman, OpenAI, and his
And on the other, you have Dario Amodei
we think safe AI should play out.
the optics battle in all of this. Both
asserting or reassuring people, their
care about. But, I just want to push on
safety. Because when we were talking
insisting that its model shouldn't be
weapons, they were saying their models
……（接近结尾）……
it's not safe to use their model in
those ways now.
But, do you think these companies are
opposed to those models being used for
mass surveillance, for autonomous
weapons, ever?
are well aware that the way the world is
headed is that AI is going to be at the
center of pretty much everything the
government does from surveillance to the
weapon systems. AI is going to play a
role.
companies are really competitive.
They're technologists who love what they
do. They love the future of AI. And so
there's also sort of a personal vested
interest in making the AI good enough to
play this really central role across the
government.
stake we should say in this industry
being invested. These companies are
locked into competition with each other
and there's no going back is what you're
saying.
to some of these technologists they
describe what the world looks like in
the future and honestly depending how
much sci-fi you've read in your life
that is a very attractive vision or a
really scary vision of the future. So
they look forward and they imagine a war
in which there's no human soldier on the
battlefield where back in Washington or
wherever on some military base there's a
guy with a headset who's controlling a
fleet of drones or submarines or
fighterless jets and they're fighting
against another nation state which has
very much the same
the surveillance of all these targets is
happening through AI systems that can
comb through imagery faster than the
human brain can process a single
photograph and all these decisions are
happening at lightning speeds.
That's what they see all of us kind of
hurtling towards.
we've been describing between Anthropic
and the Pentagon and OpenAI
it didn't actually forestall the future.
In some ways it just made clear to
everyone that it's coming.
They are all clear that it's inevitable
and what all these companies agree on
what the Pentagon agrees on is that
they're all active partners in making
this a reality.
thank you so much.
Iran has named a new supreme leader,
Mojtaba Khamenei.
Khamenei is the 56-year-old son of the
recently killed supreme leader, and his
appointment [music] signals the
government's desire for continuity.
Khamenei has been coordinating military
and intelligence operations at his
father's office, and [music] he has very
close ties to the powerful Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps.
President Trump has called the younger
Khamenei an unacceptable [music]
choice.
Before the announcement, Trump told ABC
that whoever is selected as Iran's next
leader [music] is, quote, "not going to
last long without the approval of the
United States."
And
over the weekend, the US and Israel
intensified their attacks on Iranian
military targets and vital energy
infrastructure. Israeli warplanes bombed
several fuel depots in and around
Tehran, saying they were being used by
Iran's military.
The airstrikes [music] created an
apocalyptic scene in the capital,
setting off oil fires that turned the
horizon orange and blanketed the city
with dark oily smoke.
Water desalination [music]
plants were also struck in Iran and on
the Persian Gulf island [music] of
Bahrain, threatening to further disrupt
the lives of millions in the region
water.
Finally, [music] on Sunday evening, oil
prices surged to over $100 a barrel for
the first time in 4 years, a worrying
sign about the war's potential effect on
gas prices.
Trump said in a truth social post on
Sunday that higher [music] oil prices
would be short-lived and called them a
quote very small price to pay [music]
for peace.
Today's episode [music] was produced by
Ricky Nuvetcky, Rochelle Bonja, Diana
Wynn, Eric [music] Krupke, and Michael
Simon Johnson with help from Mary
Wilson.
Chow. Contains music by Marion Lozano,
Rowan Nimasdo, [music] and Dan Powell.
Our theme music is by Wonderly.
This episode was engineered by Alyssa
Moxley.
Kitroeff. See you tomorrow.