TITLE: JB Pritzker on How the Trump Era Ends | The Interview
CHANNEL: The Interview - New York Times
DURATION_S: 4048  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-14T09:00:37+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RMGT2FQwXZ0
SHA256: 3f7c7e4a57363030e652c9fc1af46d1287bac39820586d7064b885b552ad2a14

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2028] 2028. [music] He's not saying anything
  [2029] there should be a Project 2029 for
  [2025] remember, though, that Project 2025 also
  [7.25] $7.25. It's about $14, $14,000
  [2018] 2018 [music] and he's running for a rare
  [14000] $7.25. It's about $14, $14,000
  [28000] wage jobs, $28,000 a year. Um you can't
  [2.20] about $2.20
  [80%] minimum wage, 80% including a majority
  [1800] 1800s fleeing the Jewish pogroms in
  [2017] example in 2017
  [8.25] minimum wage to $15 from $8.25 in my
  [50000] making $50,000 a year. Here in Illinois,
  [90000] 50, 60, 70, 80, 90,000 dollars a year
  [4.95%] that first of all, 4.95% is our income
  [100%] &gt;&gt; 100% the paradigm shift is massive. This
  [2023] by Hamas on uh, October 7th of 2023.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
You are uncomfortable talking about your
family's wealth.
That a statement. It's [laughter] a
statement and a question.
Springfield, Illinois to speak with
Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker.
Pritzker has been governor here since
2018 [music] and he's running for a rare
third term. He's also become one of
President Trump's chief antagonists.
me. So, come and get me. And partially
because of that, many people see him as
a strong [music] contender for the
Democratic presidential nomination in
2028. [music] He's not saying anything
about his plans quite yet, though. A
former businessman from one of America's
most wealthy and influential families,
being a progressive billionaire has
become central to Pritzker's brand.
on the left, that's also a potential
source of tension. [music]
So, we get into that and also where he
sees his party going. Here's my
conversation with Illinois Governor J.B.
Pritzker.
joining us. I'm really excited to have
you on the interview. Great to be with
you, Lulu.
Uh it's a bit of a gray day here in
Springfield, Illinois, but we are at the
governor's mansion, which is um
really impressive, very beautiful, lots
of Abraham Lincoln. In fact, there's a
bust over there of Abraham Lincoln. Um
does it feel weird to have him sort of
looming over you sometimes?
No, it's really wonderful, actually. I
mean, to think about, you know, this is
the state that produced the greatest
president that we've ever had.
Um and a state that's produced other
great presidents too, like Barack Obama
and Ulysses S. Grant. Um and Ronald
Reagan. Uh so, you know, we're proud of
California. Yeah, yeah. Um
you know, there's a lot going on in the
world, um lot going on in your state,
but I want to start um
with more of a philosophical question.
When we look at
this moment and this era, which is so
dominated obviously by the president, um
I've been really thinking about how he
wields executive power.
And I'm wondering what you think the
lesson for Democrats is um from
President Trump and how he has wielded
power to get what he wants.
I think it's a lesson for everyone that
gets elected to office in a in an
executive post. I think that
what President Trump has done is uh I
think I
operate like the president of a banana
republic. Uh or as if he were an
authoritarian. That is,
now he's got power, he's going to
vanquish his enemies
uh and rule in favor of the people who
will enrich him.
Uh and I think that the lesson is for
the country that that this is a
dangerous road that we've gone down
putting someone like that in public
office. We need to stand up against
corruption. We need to stand up uh and
make sure that whoever it is that gets
elected is someone who's good and decent
and kind. I think kindness is something
that's been missing in our politics. So,
you could say that's a lesson for
Democrats. I think it's a lesson for all
elected officials.
You know, you're sort of talking about
overreach um and ruling like an
authoritarian, which is one version of
looking at that. Um another version,
though, I think is how he's really been
able to push through an aggressive
agenda. Um you know, the shock and awe
theory of governance, if you will. Um
you know, I've heard so many voters
complain, and I'm sure you've heard this
too, about incrementalism, about, you
know, all the promises that get made
when you're running for office and then
feeling like
gets into office. And I'm wondering if
there are lessons to be taken from the
frustration of voters and the way that
he's managed to do it. Yeah. I Let me
begin by saying that
uh I ran on an agenda as governor. I ran
on a very bold agenda and and I swiftly
enacted that agenda. And my first year
in office really accomplished most of
what I ran on, which were big things. Uh
I think that is the way uh to operate.
There's no doubt. Uh and that we as
Democrats, if there's a lesson, it's
that
there should be a Project 2029 for
Democrats. Now,
remember, though, that Project 2025 also
included uh taking away people's rights
and freedoms. It included uh tearing
down the safety net that the holds up
our working families and that stands up
for the most vulnerable in our society.
So, there are things about the agenda
that I think are
reprehensible and they're
anti-democratic. But But But yes, the
speed of the agenda and it's it's not
shock and awe as so much as run on the
agenda.
When you won it run and win on an
agenda, you can accomplish that agenda
and need to do it as soon as possible.
The problem is Donald Trump would say
things and now he's doing things that
are very different. Remember, he said,
"We're not going to cut Medicaid."
That's precisely what he's done.
What does a Project 2029 agenda look
like
for you? I don't think you can speak of
it in in shorthand, but I'll just say a
couple of things that I think are
absolutely necessary. Uh one is we've
got to restore the rule of law, and that
means holding people accountable who've
broken the law. I'm talking about in
this administration, when we get a new
one, the people in this administration
who've broken the law. And federal
agents who broken the law need to be
held accountable. And that means
criminally prosecuted. Criminally
prosecuted, civilly prosecuted, you
know, whatever it is that we can do,
right? It may be that you can't
criminally prosecute somebody, but that
you can go after them civilly. So,
that's one thing. But But a second
thing, just thinking about people's
everyday lives, right? I mean, just
lifting people up and making things more
affordable in the world. Um how about
finally, finally we Democrats get to
universal health care. Obamacare was
terrific and it advanced the cause,
but we still have a whole lot of people
that don't have coverage and now, of
course, it's being taken away from a lot
of people. So, that's part of the
agenda, universal health care. Uh
another part of the agenda is we've got
to raise the minimum wage in this
country. You know, the minimum wage is
$7.25. It's about $14, $14,000
a year
if you have one full-time job. You can't
survive on 14 As a single person, you
can't
wage jobs, $28,000 a year. Um you can't
raise a family on that. Maybe you could
survive alone on that. So, why are we
allowing people to live at $7.25? By the
way, the tipped wage in this country is
about $2.20
an hour.
Ridiculous. We need to raise wages in
this country and start with the minimum
wage. So, I give that as an example
because health care and people earning
enough to live on, those seem like basic
fundamentals of who we are as Democrats.
That ought to be right at the top of the
agenda. Hm.
Why do you think there hasn't been a
Project 2029 by the Democrats and their
think tank allies, which is actually how
Project 2025 came about from from the
right? They They was a concerted effort
from many different groups to sort of
enact it.
It's a great question and you talked
about incrementalism earlier. Uh I do
think that that people feel like, you
know, well, we need the public to come
along on every issue and so, let's play
them out over several years so that we
can finally get consensus and so on.
It's true, but some of these issues have
been around for an awful long time. And
I guarantee you that if you pulled the
American public about raising the
minimum wage, 80% including a majority
of Republicans would say it's time to
raise the minimum wage. So, there I I
don't think we need to be incrementalist
about some things that I think are
universally understood. So, as we're
speaking,
um
we have just had our first insight into
the
feeling of the voting public because
we've had a sort of our first primaries
in for the midterms. And in particular,
of course, this the Texas Senate primary
um is being looked at very closely on
both the left and the right. Um James
Talleyrand defeated Jasmine Crockett.
And that race was seen as something of a
bellwether uh for the kind of approach
that works best for Democrats. And I'm
……（中部抽样）……
just wondering what your takeaways from
And as you said, the uh primary in uh in
are fighting for them, not the other
what they exhibited was the ability to
young people are the ones who come up
out there talking about transformative
you know has positioned herself as a
combative position when in regards to
stand for what you believe in but you
got somebody who's taking people's
I I don't know how on earth you can
I'm talking about when he was in
friends with and then he all of a sudden
of New York whom you know you mentioned
enormous power.
When the pandemic hit Mhm. I called the
He promised to do that and didn't
government can help they need to help.
He's denied that when we've had floods
at his entire history, Donald Trump's
on sort of the theory of of power for
do you think Democrats should they
as it is? It's a great question and I
essentially said the president is immune
well
not accusing him of actually committing
their own power.
they people who will actually stand up
But democracy is a little bit slower
That's what Donald Trump thinks. He
But I also very much believe that if you
You
when I was five.
Um
out of town. They were very far away
else except from me. So I need time to
arranged to take us out for the day and
So it it allowed my mother to get back
how hard that must have been for her.
do it every day unfortunately. Um but I
She was the part her his partner really
subsequently talked to their friends. As
that had ever died. Like their first
father when he would enter a room cuz he
though in [clears throat] addition to
that is so hard to overcome. Most people
you know, she found, you know, she went
the time, but she she was sober a lot
and yet she was just I mean she had to
mother to you that I want to be, but I
moment that I can remember, you know,
overcome it and it overcame her and took
you know, I I don't want to aggrandize
difficult one as a for a child.
sure that you weren't going to fall off
cared deeply about us and we had a
family that would step in and care for
going through that for other people
more than just a story about someone who
maybe we were Democrats for sure. You
message out back then before the
hasn't served in public office, but he
a dedication to serving the public. So
grandfather,
became one of the wealthiest
people like think these things just come
States and it was a hugely successful
know, the Hyatt Hotel Group.
uncomfortable with the assumptions that
about social justice and and compassion.
have. If you have resources, you can
president of the United States and here
that, you know, that
will estimate
politicians owe voters?
day in this administration is Donald
done that in a corrupt fashion running
example
money to finance your own campaigns to
there's no special interest that could
they themselves have given money
or we're going to work together on
on the left? I mean,
and it's in part because of like a
that's not true of me and it's not true
it seems like
elected, I needed to prove to people
enacting policies that were helping
obviously in California there's a big
What do you say to people
a lot of nuance to it. There is a lot of
about a graduated income tax, right?
everyday.
nuance and I agree there's nuance in all
a secretary in his business. And he's
United States? Abraham Lincoln.
assets. That's part of what some people
not valued. You know, the way you value
wealth. But you can't do that if you own
It's just a practical question. And I do
a different rate than ordinary income?
How are you going to pay for the
mean, aren't as
I've cut taxes for people who are making
want to make it easier for working
that that's fair. And so that is what I
the things that you need. As you know,
challenges that you're seeing in terms
families and the challenges that a state
question with a lot of complex
governor who had devastated our fiscal
bills. So talk about irresponsibility.
Illinois, but it's about making progress
health care and the basic needs like
Illinois.
And it seems like one of those
health care. So it just seems like a
investing in our public schools. That is
the country for funding education from a
seeing that happen?
You just can't. We actually believe in
who are imposing on Republican states
working people that they're raising the
that you've had is so-called social
themselves.
any way and their algorithms are truly
$56 billion budget.
to talk about that with legislature. I
for the
know, specifically among white collar
no to answer both of your questions.
it. It's going to happen. The question
it.
administration comes up with something
on both sides
associate at a law firm because they
all run rampant without any solutions to
to say to you that if we are not putting
problems, you know, AI
beginning to talk about, you know, what
is one of the issues of our lifetimes.
to get a college degree and don't. I've
term. They weren't addressed during
Governor Pritzker, thank you so much for
to talk about Iran and other [music]
twice. [music] I speak with the governor
East because you have positioned
President Trump got us into this war
seems like if you get into a conflict
reason other than Donald Trump's choice.
Venezuela, Iran. He's talking about
really matters to most American families
killed I you know, I wonder how long
an unpopular conflict.
because obviously we're not prosecuting
recent polling showed overwhelming
And I'm just wondering what you think of
want to start by saying I respect the
like Benjamin Netanyahu and here in the
um, not carrying out what I think are
Iran, the uh, leadership of Iran, these
should be replacing leadership across
current situation because I you know,
carried out, I think over
uh, and hope that that they wouldn't be
I and Israel had conducted operations
delivered to the innocent, uh, to make
that would occur.
state of Israel as a safe haven, but
that's supporting policies that I don't
And [snorts]
them. And last August you also endorsed
Well, I abandoned AIPAC more than a
dozen years ago, it the organization
as called AIPAC, but it didn't have a
supporting Democrats and I'm somebody
candidates that were MAGA and right-wing
Israel changed, AIPAC changed and you
think that it's certainly true that
always believed that there should be a
democracy.
was really important and uh, so I I'm
my position and AIPAC, of course, has
……（接近结尾）……
subject of stepping, you know, between
Donald Trump and the people of my state
and protecting people and speaking out
and being
unafraid to do so. So, I think I wish
more Democratic politicians were doing
that right now, and I wish more
politicians in general, I wish
Republicans would get religion about,
you know, standing by the law and the
Constitution. But
but so I guess that's why people have
considered me as a potential candidate,
but I really am focused on the things
that matter to the people of my state
and I will continue to do so. And and if
the question comes up in the future,
first question to me will be that I'll
have to answer for myself
is
whatever choices I make, is this the
best thing for the state of Illinois and
the people of Illinois? Governor,
looking at the world right now and
America's place in it, it reminds me of
what many Democrats see as President
Biden's fundamental sort of
miscalculation, if you will. When he
became president, he pitched that Trump
was an aberration, that we can go back
to the before times.
And I think we've now seen that there's
sort of no going back to what came
before.
As Canada's Mark Carney said in Davos,
the old order is not coming back.
And looking at the future beyond Trump,
what
do you think is coming? What keeps you
up at night? And also, what gives you
hope? Donald Trump has made this world
less safe.
What keeps me up at night is that when
we say we are that the world order is
changing, that that it means less order.
And it means there is more
by the United States, but by other
countries, too. If the world isn't
willing to act, if the free world isn't
willing to act
as a collective against the Russian
aggression on Ukraine,
then
then we allow countries simply to
decide, we don't like our neighbor or
we'd like to have some of their
territory. We're just going to invade.
If we have a more powerful army, it's
ours for the taking.
So, that is the world I'm afraid is is
now upon us
and that we need to stop.
I agree that Donald Trump may have
permanently blown up a world in which
the United States was the leader.
And where now maybe we won't be anymore.
But I do think, and I've talked to a lot
of people who live in Europe, Americans
who live in Europe,
and I've asked them, you know, do you
think we can
re-establish
the trust that we had with our allies in
Europe. Can we, you know, put it back
together so that we're all working in
unison with one another with the United
States at the helm. And their answer, I
asked how long would it take to do that,
and two of them, the three people that I
can think of,
said 20 years.
And the third one said never.
And I believe it is between 20 years and
never. And that So, that is the fear
that I have, okay? Now, what is my
optimism or, you know, what what what do
I hope What am I hoping for?
I'm hoping that
when finally we're able to re-establish
ourselves as a trustworthy ally,
that we can go to the most important of
our international relationships and on a
one-to-one basis restore a sense of
order and direction for those
relationships and that the United States
can be the most important of the allies
among a you know, a a plethora of
equals, let's say.
And then I, you know, our our job,
I think, if we're able to do that, is to
restore hope among the American people.
I think that people have lost the hope
and the optimism and the you know, the
the sense that we belong to the greatest
nation in the world, that we're all
lucky to be here and that we have
obligations. How about if we return to a
world where people sort of feel like
they owe something
and are willing to to give to our
country and to promote our country
throughout the world as a leader of
peace.
Governor Pritzker, thank you so much. I
really have enjoyed our conversation.
Thank you, Lulu.
Marchese. And [music] we're the hosts of
The Interview, an audio and video
podcast from The New York Times.
influential people from all walks of
life. Subscribe to our YouTube channel
so you'll never miss an episode.