TITLE: Who Is Winning the War in Iran?
CHANNEL: The Daily
DURATION_S: 2279  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-19T14:51:19+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lV3DS3mwB7Q
SHA256: e95026b3dffbed435d0d7010581d1001a8bbf259edc38895601e1f4b570f5efb

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [90%] 90%
  [7800] more than 7,800 targets in Iran.
  [2100] that there've been at least 2,100 deaths
  [1300] 1,300 of those civilian deaths, mostly
  [50000] of the 50,000 American troops in the
  [6000] 6,000 mines. It may have actually been
  [5000] dropped several 5,000 lb penetrating
  [99%] if you get 95, 98, 99% of the threat
  [1%] that 1% chance or less that some kind of
  [1980] War of the 1980s, and it was a problem

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
From the New York Times,
US and Israel have largely decimated the
regime's missile capacity, taken out key
leaders, and disrupted its central
command. And yet, Iran has not backed
down.
hardened and is wreaking more havoc than
ever. [music]
Today, my colleague Eric Schmitt on how
Iran continues to challenge the most
powerful military in the world [music]
and what President Trump's options are
for getting out of this conflict.
So, Eric, we had you on the show 10 days
into the war to lay out where things
stood. Not in terms of rhetoric or
stated goals, things that have been
pretty hard to nail down, but in terms
of hard facts, what has actually
happened on the ground. And here we are
almost at the end of week three of this
war, and we want to do something
similar. So, please orient us. Where do
things stand right now?
So, here we are, as you said, nearly 3
weeks into this campaign, and from a
military standpoint, the commanders
think they're doing pretty well.
The United [music] States is decimating
the radical Iranian regime's military in
a way the world has never seen before.
They think they're actually a bit of
ahead of schedule. In less than 2 weeks,
we've rendered the Iranian navy combat
ineffective and continue to attack naval
vessels.
naval vessels. This includes ships that
lay mines in the Gulf. They've struck
more than 7,800 targets in Iran.
areas. And this is the US and Israel or
just the US? This is just the US. Wow.
its own campaign in parallel with the
United States, and they in particular
have gone after many of the Iranian
leaders.
Israel claimed to have hit the hideout
of Iran's security [music] chief.
There's another big hole in the top of
the leadership.
Ali Larajani.
Soleimani. [music]
He was the head of
the militia group that ruthlessly
suppressed protesters in January. And
then on Wednesday, they announced they
killed the intelligence chief for Iran.
country's entire global terror network.
they've carried out against the
leadership of the country at this point.
So, these are obviously massive blows to
the structure of the regime. To what
extent do those deaths though actually
impact the regime itself? Because it
seems like they're still there. That's
right. The regime has been quite
resilient.
Iran has been hitting back with attacks
across the region.
ships off the coast of Despite the fact
that they've lost these top leaders,
they have factored that into their
planning. Well, Israel has also been
under attack. Iran launched a new wave
of retaliatory strikes overnight.
Israel confirmed the killing of two of
the Islamic Republic's most powerful
officials.
use of these cluster munitions, to get
through Israel's air defenses, cause
damage, and also tonight fatalities. And
so, they've been able to fight on even
as the Israeli and American militaries
continue to degrade their ability to
fight back.
And that's really important because
right now it's what the military calls
an asymmetric war.
The Iranian regime, weakened as it is,
knows it can't go toe-to-toe with the
Israeli and American militaries. So,
they're fighting almost a
guerrilla-style campaign at this point.
Right. And how is the Pentagon assessing
then its progress? How does the Pentagon
see the war thus far?
Well, again, the Pentagon looked at this
as maybe a 4-to-6-week campaign from the
start. And again, we're coming toward
the end of the third week, and they feel
by their metrics, they're doing pretty
well at degrading and destroying the
leadership, some of the military sites,
Iran's ability to fight back, Iran's
ability to produce new weapons. So, they
think they're doing pretty well.
And Eric, in terms of loss of life,
where does that stand on all sides of
this?
Well, right now, the Times estimates
that there've been at least 2,100 deaths
on the ground in the war so far. Over
1,300 of those civilian deaths, mostly
in Iran itself. There've been deaths in
some of the other countries that have
been attacked by Iran, Saudi Arabia, the
United Arab Emirates, and Qatar. So,
those countries have suffered as well.
On the American side, the death toll is
now up to 13 that have been killed in
action, with scores of others being
injured in various attacks in as many as
seven different countries. And
obviously, all of that is tragic loss of
life. On the American side, is that
number, that 13, is that low if you're
the Pentagon? I mean, when you just
think about the level of operation that
is being carried out here and the time
that it's taken.
That's right. Any death, any US service
member in combat death is tragic, but I
think most commanders would say as
tragic as these numbers are that it's
still on the relatively low side. Things
could have gotten much worse. Obviously,
about six of these American deaths came
when two refueling aircraft collided
over Western Iraq last week, so that's
an accident itself. But, it was
interesting in the second briefing
during the first week of the war,
Secretary Pete Hegseth said that about
90%
of the 50,000 American troops in the
region had been moved away from their
main bases in the region. That reflected
the concern they had with potential
casualties. So, you've got several
thousand American troops still on the
ground, but it's really the main
operators that are still in place and at
risk as opposed to a much larger
potential target set for Iranian
missiles and drones. Okay, so bottom
line, it sounds like the Pentagon is
feeling like it's executing its military
mission successfully.
I do hear a but though in what you've
been saying because you've been careful
to emphasize military success. That's
right because on the other side of the
coin, there are political goals. And of
course, the president has been
articulating several over the last
several days, some of which seem to
conflict with each other. And certainly
on the first day of the war, he talked
about regime change altogether in Iran.
He seems to have moved away from that.
He talks about denying Iran's capability
to ever develop a nuclear weapon. Right.
He talks about devastating Iran's
ability to project power in the region.
That is its ability to threaten not only
the United States, but its neighbors in
the future. And so it's a shifting array
of targets and also a shifting end state
as we come to the end of this third
week. Right. And as you've said, despite
all of the decimating of Iran's military
capacity that has happened, the regime
is not backing down. So just explain
that. What are we seeing?
Well, the main thing that we're seeing
is with the dwindling amount of
resources that the Iranian military has,
they're being very selective in their
targeting. They're still trying to hit
American bases, American embassies in
the region, but their most important
thing is they're basically now entering
a new phase where economic warfare is
probably their biggest tool. So now what
they're doing is they're going after the
economic vulnerabilities of the United
States and international community.
This narrow strategic waterway through
which so much international commerce
flows in and out of the Persian Gulf.
And what they've been able to do is with
a handful of mines, the New York Times
has reported, but just the threat of
attacks, they've basically brought
international commerce to a trickle. And
that's the main concern right now of the
administration because it's sending
global shockwaves in terms of the
economic impact this is already having.
And Eric, just to understand the
situation on the ground, the way that
Iran is holding up traffic in the Strait
of Hormuz, it's not just theoretical
[snorts] threats, right? There have been
actual attacks. That's right. I think
……（中部抽样）……
nearly 20 different tankers, whether
deterrent on other shipping companies
growing number of ships that are waiting
explain how exactly they're hitting
with what weapons? Like, how does this
their mines that they can put out in the
6,000 mines. It may have actually been
be attached to the seabed in the narrow
ships that way. So, that's one way.
to the north of the strait is Iranian
missiles, they could fire at ships and
Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps
around and they've harassed naval
rocket-propelled grenade, and suddenly
you go. So, there are multiple means
on traffic moving in and out of that
speedboat coming through with an RPG on
hold up this choke point for the entire
that affected by this enormously
That's right. Just on Tuesday night,
bombs that go to missile silos that are
if you get 95, 98, 99% of the threat
rocket or missile could get through and
been able to direct these attacks
what Iran did is they had a very
They have some 30 different districts,
the central command and control in
the military or the IRGC, these
instructions, and they can continue
crystal clear here, we are seeing the
by this totally decentralized strategy
capacity destroyed. Obviously, it's not
able to exercise complete control over
Right. And that's the challenge that the
because he
help, you know, defend the strait. So,
emerging more and more as a political
because everybody's affected by this.
leverage and as long as they can hold on
over this final decision.
and calculated that these issues with
have. Because, as you said this week, we
United States to help solve this
This is after he didn't really consult
though the United States definitely
problem. What do we know?
commanders, such as General Dan Cain,
head of US Central Command, that's the
to the president and his senior advisers
predictable because the the problem of
back to, for instance, in the Iran-Iraq
some military officials, and certainly
attack its fellow neighbors, its
Hoekstra has even acknowledged that. I
threat, many believe that the Iranians
been briefed that by the intelligence
regime,
Hormuz, faster than certainly this
deal with this kind of a threat right
they've got aren't even in the Gulf
international support for the kind of,
it was predictable, I think the way in
strokes that it did, I think took some
Eric, I want to just stay here for one
being shut down for so long. Do the
that this misread was a colossal
avoided?
wouldn't have had to be addressed this
at the uh their main target sets, the
military capability to fight back.
economic problem was maybe more
how you deal with this threat because
Okay, so now [clears throat] that we
and are essentially saying that they are
more serious by the day, we know the
ways out of this?
to really bad to worse for the president
are now weighing.
super bad to worse,
you think the US military will take now?
Hormuz that we've been discussing. And
countries to basically conduct tanker
the Persian Gulf and then take other
are equipped with special radar that can
almost certainly be accompanied by
only in the air but in the sea. Wow.
out for those speedboats that we talked
a very complex operation where you'd
leading some number of commercial
going through channels and again,
that could pop up at any given time.
these warships
very much a distinct possibility. Right.
is it worth, even with the protection of
donate ships, is it worth the risk of
for a some kind of diplomatic solution,
that. Yeah, I cannot imagine being a
does sound bad, does sound incredibly
over
Persian Gulf off the Iranian coast,
place. And just last week on President
targets were hit on this island itself.
Now, the president at time said, "I
long-term economic impact this would
you know, rebuild its economy, but also
taking, you know, the Iranian oil such
that off the table." Right, it sounds
entire infrastructure of Iran's oil
those Marines that are steaming, you
or some other kind of military operation
concede on other fronts because the
to go through the Strait of Hormuz,
popping out of the water, but they have
them coming because as you said first
that safely with all the protection that
hundred miles up into the northern part
the whole world would be keeping an eye
Even if you were to succeed with that
possibility if they ever went to war
immediately become a target for the
have to defend it once they seize it.
drones and missiles there. So there's
risk of seizing the island but it could
subsequent occupation the the oil
taking this island if if the economic
Kharg Island, in the best case, you're
Iran. My question is
that that kind of pressure would
which is wage asymmetric warfare that is
stuff. Is that pressure seen as
this strategy would be effective. And
remain of an Iranian regime may be even
the United States, particularly if they
willing to basically, you know, go down
guarantee this would work at all. Okay.
what's coming.
that President Trump has talked about
to develop a nuclear weapon.
different Iranian nuclear sites, but
of which has been stored right now in a
at the end of any kind of conflict, the
mission an overall success, you'd have
made into a bomb, but it's can be
about that? And you could continue
difficult for the Iranians to get at it.
continue to fly some kind of aerial
trying to dig that material out, they'd
ground forces.
into these tunnels, and somehow extract
these canisters being destroyed.
extract it, to bring it out of the
have to ensure a security ring around
seize the territory around Isfahan to
are able to get out safely. [music]
and also highly radioactive. Woah. So,
canisters that could
incredibly risky and dangerous [music]
president has openly talked about this
they know this is the ultimate target
preserve it because that, you know, in
nuclear weapon. So, what you're
president in particular as he is looking
those goals. I just wonder whether there
coming out and saying that this is over
calling it quits at this point, cutting
Well, it certainly is because the
is essentially over from a military
degrading or destroying much of Iran's
neighbors and the United States. The
them are dead. And even if a weakened
we are currently seeing the limits of
……（接近结尾）……
far, they've proved more resilient, I
think, that either American or Israeli
officials believe they would be by this
point in the conflict. You know,
returning to the options that face Trump
and the possible paths to an end to this
conflict, it feels as though
that is very much tied to the story of
the war in general, which is what are
your goals? And how do you determine
when you've actually achieved them? And
it seems like that is still very
uncertain for the administration, for
Israel, for everyone involved.
I think that's right, Natalie. And I
think what you've seen is the president
is really weighing two conflicting
impulses.
On the one hand, he may want to double
down, send in ground forces. Or,
does he look for an off-ramp? Does he
declare victory and find ways of
basically ticking off a series of
achievements that would basically say in
the end, "We're safer now than they were
at the beginning of this operation, and
I therefore can say this is in a victory
for the American people." Mhm.
Which decision he'll make, we still
don't know.
Well, we will be watching alongside you,
Eric. Thank you so much for coming on
the show again.
Thank you very much.
company reported that missiles had
caused extensive damage to a major
energy hub in the country, which is one
of the world's largest exporters of
liquefied natural gas.
The Qatari government blamed Iran, which
had vowed retaliation after an earlier
attack on an Iranian gas field.
In a Truth Social post late Wednesday
night, President Trump said Israel was
responsible for the attack on the
Iranian gas field, and he claimed the US
had no idea it was going to happen.
He also threatened Iran, saying that if
the country attacked Qatar again, the US
would blow up the rest of the oil field.
We'll be right back.
Here's what else you need to know today.
You told the media that I was a freaking
understood why I'd been assaulted. I was
shocked that you would justify and
celebrate this violent assault that
caused me so much pain and my family so
much pain. [music]
During a sometimes fiery confirmation
hearing, Republican Senator Rand Paul of
Kentucky confronted [music] President
Trump's choice to run the Department of
Homeland Security, Senator Mark Wayne
Mullin, over his past statements,
including remarks in which Mullin seemed
to approve of a violent attack on Paul
several years ago that resulted in
broken ribs and a damaged lung.
I I just [music] wonder if someone who
applauds violence against their
political opponents is the right person
to lead an agency that has struggled to
accept limits to the proper use of
force. I did not say I supported it. I
said I understood it.
There's a difference. What do you think
most people would interpret completely
understand to be support for or a
condemnation of the violence?
Sir, as [music] I said, we can have our
differences. It's not going to keep me
from doing my job as the Secretary of
Homeland Security. [music]
McAleenan, who's known for his combative
style, sought to strike a conciliatory
tone. He said he believed that he could
work with Democratic [music]
mayors and sheriffs in sanctuary cities
that oppose the Trump administration's
agenda on immigration.
And these law enforcement, and I would
even say these mayors, they still love
their community. They still love their
their cities. [music]
Uh they still love this country.
So, maybe it's a misunderstanding we can
work by. And I'm going to start [music]
with that and hopefully work with them
and never work against them.
The Homeland Security Committee is
expected to vote on McAleenan's
nomination [music] today.
Today's episode was produced by Rochelle
Banja, Carlos Prieto, [music]
and Mary Wilson. It was edited by Page
Cowett and Lisa Baelen, and contains
music by Dan Powell, Alicia [music] B.
Eatoop, Marion Lozano, and Rowan
Nemirow.
Our theme music is by Wonderly. This
episode was engineered [music] by Chris
Wood.
That's it for The Daily. [music] I'm
Natalie Kitroeff. See you tomorrow.