TITLE: Dylan Patel — The single biggest bottleneck to scaling AI compute
CHANNEL: Dwarkesh Podcast
DURATION_S: 9045  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-13T16:26:57+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mDG_Hx3BSUE
SHA256: 8c9599c8a8ce9e47e86f41eca4f951efa5865ba61857b049faf8000336dbe608

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2030] 2030 we're like [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] we got to like get
  [20%] know, roughly 20% capacity. Uh, in
  [50%] having to pay either this like 50%
  [5.4] &gt;&gt; um let's take GPT 5.4 GP 5.4 4 is both
  [10%] like 5 10% more for 26, but really we're
  [30%] advanced logic is like 30% of the cost
  [25%] he's only taking 25% share then right
  [2035] meaning 2035 which is not that long in
  [15%] 15% of the maximum power because things
  [2024] in 2023 or 2024 H100 2025 that were
  [2025] in 2023 or 2024 H100 2025 that were
  [35%] margin is roughly 35%. It's a little bit
  [90%] three years right now um for like 90%
  [1.2] half EUV tools cost? That's like 1.2,
  [2020] that initially were shipped in 2020 so
  [2048] we've been indexing on, is 2048 bits
  [8000] maybe 8 8,000 giga transfers a second.
  [1000] increase on a $1,000 smartphone um or
  [2023] in 2023 or 2024 H100 2025 that were
  [2.40] high as $2.40 40s for two to three years
  [2026] in 2024, but in 2026 when Blackwell is
  [1099] editors, and I owed all of them 1099s.
  [55000] you need about 55,000 wafers of 3
  [1.1] the math, that's like, okay, that's 1.1
  [2028] I look out to 2028. But the capabilities
  [13.5] EUV light 13.5 nmter and then it's in
  [5000] and then Reuben is like 5,000 or so
  [100%] right. Or actually, I I think 100% it's
  [40%] then like 40% of our revenue is like
  [2027] compute numbers by 2027? Um is it just
  [1.90] for $1.90, it's 35% roughly. Um, and
  [1.5] expensive. Now it's just 1.5x more
  [2022] Facebook in 2022 and doing AI right um
  [2829] year next year uh but ultimately by 2829
  [300400] selling price for those is $300400
  [6000] nanometer. You need about 6,000 wafers
  [170000] 170,000 wafers of DRAM, right? Memory.
  [10000] over 10,000 people in it right
  [0%] from 0% power growth to 2% power growth
  [2%] from 0% power growth to 2% power growth

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
All right. This is the episode of my
roommate teaches me semiconductors.
[laughter]
current set.
use it, I'm like, I can't use this
again.
analysis. Dylan, the vering question I
have for you. Um if you add up the big
four, Amazon, Meta, Google, Microsoft,
their combined uh forecasted capex that
you published recently this year is $600
billion. And given uh you know yearly
prices of renting that compute, that
would be like close to 50 gawatt. Now
obviously we're not putting on 50 gawatt
this year. So presumably that's paying
for compute that is going to be coming
online over the coming years. So I have
a question about what how to think about
the timeline around when that capex
comes online. Similar question for the
labs where you know OpenAI just
announced that they raise $110 billion.
Anthropic just announced they raised $30
billion and if you look at the compute
that they have coming online this year
um you should tell me how much it is but
like isn't another 4 gawatt total that
they'll have this year. It feels like
the cost to rent the compute that OpenAI
and Enthropic will have this year to
like sustain their comput spend at you
know 101 13 billion a gigawatt
those individual raises alone are like
enough to cover their comput spend for
the year and then this is not even
including the revenue that they're going
to earn this year. So help me understand
first when is the time scale at which
the big tech capex is actually coming
online and two what are the labs raising
all this money for if like the the
yearly price of a a 1 gawatt data center
is like $1 13 billion.
these hyperscalers right on the order of
$600 billion and you look at across the
rest of the supply chain gets you to on
the order of a trillion dollars. A
portion of this is you know immediately
for compute going online this year right
the chips and the uh the the other parts
of capex that do get paid this year but
there's a lot of setup capex as well
right so when we have when we're talking
about 20 gawatt this year in America
roughly
this is not spent this year a portion of
that capex is actually spent the prior
year and so when you look at hey
Google's got $180 billion actually big
chunk of that is spent on turbine
deposits for 28 and 29. A chunk of that
is spent on data center construction for
27. A chunk of that is spent on, you
know, power purchasing agreements and
down payments and all these other things
that they're doing uh for further out
into the future so that they can set up
this super fast scaling, right? And and
and this applies to all the hyperscalers
and other people in the supply chain.
And so, you know, 20 gigawatts roughly
deployed this year. Um a big chunk of
that being hyperscalers, chunk not being
and all of these companies, their
biggest customers are Anthropic and
OpenAI. um anthropic and open AAI are in
the you know 2 gawatt and you know 2 and
a half gawatt and one and a half
gigawatts roughly right now they're
trying to scale to much larger right if
you look at what anthropic has done over
the last few months you know 4 billion 6
billion revenue added and if we just
draw a straight line hey yeah they'll
add another $6 billion of revenue a
month uh people would argue that's
bearish and that they should go faster
what that implies is that they're going
to add $60 billion of revenue across the
next 10 months right and $60 billion of
revenue at the current gross margins
that Anthropic had at least last uh
reported by media um would imply that
they have you know roughly $40 billion
of compute spend for that inference for
that 60 bill of revenue. That $40
billion of compute at roughly $10
billion a gigawatt um rental cost means
that they need to add 4 gawatt of
inference capacity just to grow revenue
and that's saying that their research
and development training fleet stays
flat. Right? So, you know, in a sense,
Enthropic needs to get to well above 5
gigawatts by the end of this year, and
it's going to be really tough for them
to get there, but it's possible.
yeah. Um,
gigawatts by the end end of this year,
but it needs that to serve both the
revenue that's gone crazier than
expected and maybe it's going to be even
more than that, plus the research and
training to make sure its models are
good enough for next year. How how where
is that going to come from? You know,
Dario when he was on your podcast was
very very like conservative. He's like,
you know, I'm not going to go crazy on
compute because if my revenue in flex at
a different rate, at a different point,
I don't want to go bankrupt. You know, I
want to make sure that we're being
responsible with this scaling. But in
reality, you know, he's definitely
missed the pooch in terms of like going
like OpenAI, which was let's just sign
these crazy [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] deals, right? Um,
and OpenAI is kind of got way more
access to compute than Enthropic by the
end of the year. And so what does
Enthropic have to do to get the compute?
Well, they have to go to lower quality
providers that they would not have gone
to before, right? You know, optimally,
you know, Anthropic at least
historically has had the best quality
providers been like Google and Amazon.
Um whereas, you know, at least
historically minded, you know, the
biggest companies in the world, um now
Microsoft and now they're expanding
across the supply chain and going to
other players that are newer. Um Open
Alia has been, you know, a bit more
aggressive on going to many players.
Yes, they have tons of capacity from
Microsoft. uh they have Google and
Amazon as well, but they also have like
tons with Cororeweave and Oracle and
they've gone to like random companies or
you know one would think random
companies like SoftBank Energy who has
never built a data center in their life
but you know they're building data
centers now for OpenAI. So they've gone
to and and and many others like Nscale
and others um that they're going and
getting capacity from. And so there's
this like conundrum for Anthropic
because they were so conservative on
compute um because they didn't want to
go crazy, right? And oh, in in some
sense, a lot of the financial freakouts
in the second half of last year were
like open signed all these deals, but
they don't have the money to pay for
them. Um okay, Oracle stock's going to
tank. Oh, okay. Core reef stock's going
to tank. Okay, like you know, all these
compan stocks tanked. Um and credit
markets went crazy because people were
like, the end buyer can't pay for this.
Now it's like, oh wait, they raised a
ton of money. Okay, fine. They can pay
for it. But in the sense, Anthropic was
a lot more conservative. They're like,
we'll sign contracts, but we'll be
principled um and we'll purposely
undershoot what we think we can possibly
do um and be conservative because we
don't want to potentially go bankrupt.
in a what what is it mean to have to
acquire compute in a pinch? Um is it
that you have to go with like NeoClouds
that is it that they have worse compute
or like in what way is it worse? Is it
that you had to pay gross margins to a
cloud provider that you wouldn't have
otherwise had to pay to because you're
coming in at the last minute? Who built
the spare capacity such that it's
available for Enthropic and OpenAI to
get last minute? And like basically what
is the concrete advantage that OpenAI
has gotten if they end up at similar
compute numbers by 2027? Um is it just
like they're going to end this year with
different gigawatts? If so, how many
gigawatts is Enthropic and Open AI going
to have by the end of this year?
mean yes there is capacity at
hyperscalers that um and not all
contracts for compute are long-term
……（中部抽样）……
right 5 years right there's compute that
are at $2.40 40 cents those margins are
all the other folks Microsoft, Amazon,
time um you know for a solid like 4
recently people had made this huge point
that's an interesting financial
right uh total cost of ownership of a
the GPU falls off a bus, right? It's
lens is what is the utility you get out
model architecture etc etc data
labs are doing and they're in a
compressed, it might be pabytes, but
somebody in 2025, I just hit a toggle to
more comput. But the point I was trying
powerful uh the value of a GPU goes up
higher quality and which is lower
willing to pay higher margins to for
humongous margin advantage because
fact like if you look at core weave
from 2 gawatt to, you know, 6 plus this
cards because they've secured the
memory. Um
of these things so that um we're not
Apple has that and then Apple's also
growth too hard you actually want to
market and you like sort of like you
is there enough uh victory giant is
right?
don't have enough TPUs to fill up their
compute team at Thropic. They saw this
compute every is it 6 months or I don't
inlecting but Q4 they were at like 5
they're going to utilities and
to chips. And in the chip supply chain,
actual manufacturing of the chips and so
project out to 2030 based just on, hey,
we adding? Um, and we see, you know,
you manufacture a wafer, uh, there's
wafers for a gigawatt, if I do 20 EUV w
of the time, right? So in the end you
last three years TSMC has done hundred
machines will there be by 2030 if you
you know mobile and PC uh assuming that
2020. You know, the tools not the same.
each other. So it's called overlay and
EUV by the end of the decade, but no one
the advances in overlay or throughput
not they're not AI pill right they're
they try to expand them, the time lag is
capacity because they don't see any, you
with scaling the production. Um it's
the wafer is moving the d the other
many planes to the customer site and
variation has to be on the order of 3
people Carl Zeiss probably employs like
and and and so you end up with the time
know Google needs that you know you go
the old plan? Two, did it adapt briefly
these other alternatives that people
improvement some of that is just the
is this happens because we just need
right? Um and so numeric like are what
lot of this is and or numeric, right?
because you now have to uh transmit over
huge ladder of like oh on chip I can
deepseek and kimk 2.5 hopper versus
these things compound.
large can advanced packaging scale? Um
chips were optimized around that they
we're if you end up in this world in
of China's 7 nanmter and 14 nmter
manufacture a bunch yet, right? You
they need to not buy these lenses or buy
So I'm not sure, you know, I don't want
Francisco you're not thinking about AGI
purchasing and you know permits and
you know, hey, [clears throat] these
racing on at some point they end up
compute constraints are what's
rental costwise which is actually like
Google is wrong for wanting to take free
where the US wins.
you don't necessarily need extremely
increase in tokens per dollar by a
with this, right? You could use regular
you just need more bandwidth.
bandwidth you can be constrained by
that's in Rubin because that's what
64 gigabytes a second. Um and even if
and whatever in order to free up one
sort of the like are people going to
probably a $150 increase on the on the
a year. Now we're at like 1.1 uh but our
the halfing will frankly happen in the
so this this this probably leads to like
unlock more NAND that gets allocated uh
I guess yeah maybe there's a question
we've been talking about that for like a
right? Uh, Micron bought a fab from a
And
Street is hiring ML researchers and
tools. This is just about building the
and as we get over time, 29, you know,
want to make a fab that's a million
but then over time you'll get faster and
something totally out of the left field
attempts to do things like this
everyone's road map is sort of like you
back and forth or a nanfab to a dm fab
it was in the mid- teens as well or low
why should basically switch Silicon
efficient ones. People put down deposits
can't increase production just like TSMC
were implying that uh Gio Vernova and
this factor up, you know, from 20
easy, right? Um we're, you know, humans
trucks but it's like well actually auto
than combine cycle, which is like the
industrial gas turbines, they could be
be hard. There's a lot of hard
or other things are getting cheap enough
different kinds of engines and turbines
are doing behind the meter and then what
they had did um and if you turn that
was working on destroying power plants
you know, hey, maybe this is a 2
if you do an entire row it'll have the
move faster to new things may have more
permits are a challenge, but the Trump
bought that knowing that the gas line
them in temporary housing pay out the
space,
know maybe just plug them and plug them
to a better model in the future or
laser links that are optimized for this.
of
the GPUs, by the way, across the life of
globally of of various types of power.
cannot do in space. And at the end of
what SpaceX is about that's what Tesla
cooling and or maybe it requires like
more difficult in space than it is on
Blackwell NVL72, they implemented rack
scale up whereas Google you have to
they use Taurus topologies like Google
what was the claim exactly? If you have
sort of there's there's a few main ways
at you know to get to reach new
still have a 25% difference in the big
with H100's H200's blackwell trreniums
research. This like compounding effect
saying hey that other hyperscaler their
people use the data. It's just how do
funds do trade on information um that is
And um
people did trade memory right and and
on N2. Can
10% over the course of the year and some
little bit, but for the most part, it's
potentially because it's a brand new
because the consumer is not that strong
biggest business historically, right?
in 2019 that issue that that was not
have all the intelligence in the robot
……（接近结尾）……
sense intelligence will be where right
now with humans your computer like
there's 8 billion humans and their
compute is on on their heads on their
person and in the future even with
robots that are out of physically in the
world I mean obviously knowledge work
will be done in a centralized way from
data centers with huge like hundreds of
thousands of instances or maybe millions
of instances but even for robotics the
future you're suggesting is um one where
there's like more centralized thinking
and centralized computation that's
driving you know millions of robots out
in the world. Um and so I think that's
just like yeah that's that's an
interesting fact about the future that I
think people might not appreciate.
why he's like going to different places
for his chips, right? He signed this
massive deal with Samsung to make his
robot ships in Texas because he thinks,
you know, like I I I personally think he
thinks that, you know, Taiwan risk is
huge. And because of that and the
centralization of resources in Taiwan,
him having his robot chips in Texas and
also being a separate supply chain that
is not as constrained by no one's making
AI chips really on Samsung besides uh
Nvidia's new uh LPU that they're
launched uh they're launching it next
week, but we're recording it the week
before.
episode coming out Friday.
Sick. So, they're launching this new AI
chip um next week for which is built on
Samsung, but that's like sort of a
recent development from Nvidia. And then
that's the only other AI like AI demand
there. Whereas on TSMC, everything is
competing. So, he gets this like both
geopolitical diversification, but also
uh supply chain diversity for his
robots. and he's not as competing as
much with with the like willingness to
pay of infinity of the data center of
geniuses.
If we believe that tools are the
ultimate bottleneck,
how much of Taiwan's
uh uh place in the AS semiconductor
supply chain could we de-risk simply by
having a plan to airlift every single
process engineer at TSMC out when things
come to if they get blockaded or
something? Or do you actually still need
to ship out the EUV tools uh which would
be multiple plane loads per single tool
and would not be practical? If you ship
out all the process engineers and
assuming it's like hot enough that you
destroy the fabs, no one has all the
fabs in Taiwan now, uh, which is a big
risk, right? Um,
of semiconductors which are manufactured
in Taiwan. So, it's like a it's like a,
you know, a snake eating its own tail
sort of like meme because you can't make
the tools without the chips from Taiwan,
which you can't use without the tools in
Taiw. you know, there's obviously some
diversification there, but and and they
don't use super advanced to uh chips in
lithography tools, but at the end of the
day, there is some tail eating the
dragon. Um, just shipping out all the
engineers and blowing up the fabs means
China has a stronger semiconductor
supply chain than the rest of the world,
right? in terms of verticalization now
that you've removed Taiwan and
now you've got all the knowhow but
you've got to replicate it in let's say
Arizona um or wherever for TSMC
and it's going to take a long time to
build all the capacity that TSMC has had
built over the years and so you've
drastically slowed US and global GDP not
just growth you've shranked the GDP
massively and you've got a lot bigger
problems uh and your incremental ability
to add compute goes to almost zero,
right? Instead of hundreds of gigawatts
a year by the end of the decade, let's
say by the end of the decade something
happens to Taiwan. Now you're at maybe
like 10 gawatts across Intel and Samsung
or 20 gigawatts. It's like nothing,
right?
really caused some crazy dynamics in AI.
Uh of course you have all the existing
capacity, but that existing capacity
pales in comparison to the capacity
that's being expanded.
Thank you so much for coming on the
podcast.
you tonight. Yes. [laughter]