TITLE: Oil Surge Spooks Markets as Iran War Escalates | The China Show 3/9/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5697  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-09T04:55:49+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iHAGJvPiYjc
SHA256: d4e5486ca0f261eaced54ab2c48c1a5ee94db92d8449bf7f4d8588502afe4c82

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [20%] substantially. Uh 20% to the upside on
  [5%] the Nikkei was off 4 or 5%. The Kospi's
  [30%] if you look at HS Tech it was down 30%
  [8%] some 8% here in the pre-market. We've
  [1.3%] here, we're lower by about a 1.3% here.
  [4%] We're dropping more than 4% now. So
  [6%] we're down 4 to 6% [music] across the
  [70%] than 70% of LNG and oil from that Middle
  [3%] down some 3%. HS Tech, we're down about
  [2%] well. We're down 5 and 1/2% on that
  [10%] of trade shock. If we look at a 10%
  [2026] diplomat says 2026 could be a landmark
  [15%] midpoint today. Shanghai crude 15% to
  [7%] those futures were plunging some 7%
  [2024] November of last well, November 2024
  [17%] Shanghai crude. We're up some 17% when
  [12%] hit like uh over 12% um you know, it
  [25%] West Texas is now up 25%
  [8.1] and we're now down 8.1, which really is
  [69158] 69158. This is important because Asian
  [2.7%] we go. So, we're now down 2.7%
  [4000] close to that 4,000 level once again
  [0.9%] We do We see that print now at -0.9%.
  [1.1%] 1.1%. So, you know, what has been
  [4.2] 418. We're We're getting close to 4.2
  [10.5%] hit you know, 12%. It's now 10 10.5%
  [12.5%] oil spending um 12.5% will be roughly
  [11340] &gt;&gt; uh today. We've now taken out 11340
  [89%] 89% of all trades. It dominates world
  [1.4] China has about 1.4 billion barrels in
  [2027] scheduled to come online until 2027.
  [25000] Hong Kong at 25,000. We're below that
  [1.3] identify the signal. Uh, 1.3, a lot of
  [7.8%] somewhere 7.8% uh, year-on-year CPI
  [11%] that 11% [music] slide from the highs
  [1%] Dollar Index, we're down half of 1%.
  [7.2%] versus 7.2% over the previous few years.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong. [music] You're
watching the China Show. I'm Yvonne Man
with David Ingles.
open of markets [music] in greater
China. Our top stories today, oil
surging above $100 [music]
a barrel. Stocks are tumbling on
escalating tensions, of course, in the
Middle East. [music] The conflict
forcing Gulf producers to curb output,
divert exports away from the Strait of
Hormuz.
to ration supply and take measures to
conserve energy. Also ahead, Iran picks
the son of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei as its
next supreme leader while keeping up
attacks in other countries across the
Persian Gulf. [music] And China's top
diplomat says 2026 could be a landmark
year for ties with the US despite their
differences over the war in Iran.
markets are falling out of beds. If you
haven't had your coffee just yet, who
needs coffee? Just look at the oil price
right now. That's going to wake you up
substantially. Uh 20% to the upside on
West Texas, 20% give or take on Brent.
The spread between the two has now
effectively disappeared. Also looking at
energy prices coming across the screens
right now, and that's really leading to
risk assets being just taken off the
table right now as it pertains to equity
markets. We'll get to the dollar story
uh in a moment here. Let's have a look
at markets, please, if we can here. So,
Brent is 107, 108, 108 on West Texas
right now. We're coming off highs a
little bit as it pertains to those
markets. The equity market complex is
not doing very well as we speak. In
fact, US futures are coming up on your
screens very, very shortly.
Uh European futures are also on offer
quite substantially, too. We'll look at
Asia in a moment because Taiwan is
coming online. Uh,
the Nikkei was off 4 or 5%. The Kospi's
not doing as well. Dollar is still the
preferred haven
as it pertains to this broad aversion to
risk. Gold is the opposite. In fact,
gold is falling right now. And again,
the bonds are not acting as a haven
right now because it's an inflation
pinch. That's the problem. So, we're
looking at double-digit gains across
yield space in Australia right now. US
10-year yield up about five basis
points. A50 futures coming online. The
oil contract in Shanghai is about to
show up on your screens. Dollar China
and the fix will be very much in focus
and whether or not we will see an anchor
coming through in the form of that
midpoint today. Shanghai crude 15% to
the upside. We talked about the support
level last week. It doesn't seem this
will hold for now. The 100-day moving
average, we're trading below that on the
MSCI all country index. Given everything
that's taken place, some things get
tossed out the window when you have
triple digit on oil prices. And that's
what we have, of course, as we get
started today.
we're we're into the second week of this
Iran war and already you're seeing
people price in the probably the
worst-case scenario when it comes to oil
prices, right? I I didn't really think
that we would come back on this Monday
morning to see oil at $100, which people
were saying were quite elusive up until
now. So, uh we've gotten there.
Certainly, it's going to be a a time
before we just decide how long this
conflict is going to last, but it seems
like right now oil price traders and
really uh you know, people are looking
at these markets are are are not just
seeing this as a temporary sort of
conflict right now. Yeah, and at these
levels, right, oil becomes a political
point of conversation, right? It It
brings to mind, you know, uh on an FX
side of things, will people have to
intervene to stabilize current account
deficits? Does it become an issue when
you go into the midterms for Donald
Trump? Does it Does it incentivize the
White House to step back because oil is
is now a political problem, right? And
it also goes gets to do with the energy
mix of a country and you know, what you
can do in the meantime. Is it floating
storage? Do you mix with the energy mix?
Lots of components here. I mean, it's
it's the hit to oil infrastructure. It's
also whatever happens to the Strait of
Hormuz as you mentioned, but there's so
many other elements here. How much you
know, missiles and drones does Iran
still have in its you know, piles there?
So so that's going to be one thing to
watch. So many things to look ahead to.
We have our whole team to talk us
through all this as well. In the
meantime though, we're we're talking
when it comes to Asia Pacific stocks.
We're dropping more than 4% now. So
officially we are entering into that
correction territory. Taiwan, we saw
those futures were plunging some 7%
leading up to the open. And in Taiwan
seems to be taking us down to that
correction territory here in the region.
This is purely driven a lot of the moves
by the likes of those big heavyweights.
TSMC, it's the Samsungs, it's the SK
Hynixes that are really kind of weighing
on the whole region here this morning.
So for more on these developments, let's
bring out our team as I talked about.
Stephen Sabchinski leads our Asia energy
coverage. Laura Davison is our politics
editor. Yanting Tu is also our managing
editor for Asia equities. Stephen, let's
start with you.
We're waking up to this reality of a
$100 oil.
What what do we do now? What are what
are oil traders thinking about now?
I think the main thing that the oil
market is focusing on is what you've
alluded to before. I mean, how long does
this last for? Because that's the big
unknown here. I think at the last week
when this all started, when the strike
started, when when ships stopped going
through Hormuz, there people were
saying, oh, maybe $100 oil would happen.
This is when we were still at $70 for
Brent.
But the expectation was that this was
going to be a short sort of conflict
that this could be resolved relatively
quickly. Trump would end this. Maybe
there'd be a taco sort of event. Pull
out. Oil prices would fall again. We
haven't seen that. And now as these
strikes hit the wider region,
there are real fears that, okay, maybe
there is a peace deal. Maybe Hormuz does
open again, but what about the
infrastructure? If there's actual impact
on on oil tanks, refineries, production
facilities, anything like that, and the
risk of that continues to grow every day
as Iran continues these counterattacks
against its neighbors, that raises the
risk that this shortage, or rather this
output reduction, will continue. And so,
the market is really, really focused on
on these, you know, tit-for-tat attacks,
and and what potentially the Trump
administration will do to react. But, we
saw Trump tweet or post earlier
that that the $100 oil was a small price
to pay
for for Americans, for the for the
world, for ridding Iran of nuclear
weapons, which indicates that
he doesn't feel very pressured, at least
for now, to step things back despite the
jump up in oil prices.
Uh Stephen, can you talk us through as
well, and we've seen the spread close
between West Texas and Brent. If you
could maybe talk a little bit more about
why we're seeing that, and also to your
other point, how quickly does this
recede in terms of the news flow over
the weekend, right? You know, a lot of
the big producers have stopped producing
simply because storage is filling up,
and I wonder if we do get a quick
off-ramp, does that supply then make its
way quite quickly back into the oil
market, Stephen?
Yeah, no, that's a really good question.
Let me let me focus on that second part
of the question first, which is, you
know,
if you're shutting down production, it
isn't easy to bring it back, which is
why
people weren't shutting it down so
quickly.
The the the best thing to do when you
have an oil or gas-producing asset is to
……（中部抽样）……
reduce output to as low as possible.
maintenance on the facility, they have
uh there was an expectation, I think, in
sneezes, it affects the rest of the
days ago, said that he would be
to frame this in any way, shape, or form
earlier report separately I think on
forces operation within the country.
chance for ca- chance for casualties
the country. All right, Laura, that was
action right now.
indiscriminately indiscriminately and
Strait of Hormuz because Asia gets more
Lian Chen, I'm just looking at futures
get oil from uh, Russia and Venezuela
talking about tech. We're talking about
electricity, when you take a look at
to the highest level in years. We're
month futures for for that contract.
to our team of course recovering all
out that going into the open today we'll
losses here when it comes to EM effects.
Although the market has seemed to have
about 13 minutes from now. Sectors to
that. Here's what you got as far as the
need every warm up we can get. This is
right now. You're not seeing that go to
Bloomberg that the Trump administration
all. Like, if if that's not something
American soldiers. And Kevin, in the
why the Treasury Secretary came out and
whole flowchart of tools to use
right now to dip into that, but we've
Yes, but but obviously we're not going
energy space that it continues [music]
down about 5% on the benchmark itself
any sort of easing in sight. So, that's
here. Uh but bonds are not really kind
seeing, of course, still reflecting that
infrastructure when you have the likes
indiscriminately selling off here. Let's
November of 2024 from the PBOC. We're at
certainly that's one thing to watch.
this is really just just about across
rally. Uh we talked about the Hang Seng
not looking pretty as you can see on the
China as in February here. So, that is
weeks of February already. Factory gate
weekend. Kind of really need
morning. Very very nice to see. How are
I think that's really the key here.
definitely longer than what people have
insights why the dollar is suddenly the
Fed is cutting, ECB is holding, BOJ is
we look at the global economy is still
last week. We don't think was a great
more contained, but do you think we need
factor that is likely to benefit. I
getting better. And we do think we're
Asset Management. So, we are looking
418. We're We're getting close to 4.2
base case now based on the current
Disruptions being priced, freight costs.
I wouldn't say this is unexpected. Uh
Middle Eastern oil producers cutting
All right. So actually the main impact
these refineries petrochemical crackers.
which leave the countries that are less
Taiwan is the latest now. We're hearing
of a large deficit there, that obviously
limiting the exports of crude products
like a small-scale restricted war, but
their energy security right now?
uh pipe connecting to Russia. They can
would be okay for the next 8 to 10
know, um through tankers. So, I think
should be looking at is more on demand
for oil. I mean, how are you looking at
if we have to reach 133 that will you
analyst for uh for energy. Guess what?
yeah, something we'll track, but that is
definitely gives a more and more risk to
you know, really just sort of the whole
last very long. But we'll see. This is a
some were saying look this could maybe
In fact, I think last week our colleague
We're looking at West Texas up 25%.
gold are not behaving the way that they
of this Iran conflict. And EMFX, as Dave
pointing out to the to the downside
100-day moving average. So, it has
top uh that we saw uh just recently. So,
king dollar. It's getting a bid on all
when London wakes up in New York, you
Yeah, it's a great
dollar for 2026. Now, a lot of those
the Asia Pacific. Quite a busy day of
take us through the latest What what's
that we've seen. Uh that was ultimately
enemy of the US." This is a uh you know,
mentioned the moves are similar to like
things. Uh you know, Trump you know, has
military
operation, which you know, if this were
the inflation numbers
next guest is a senior research scholar
China is to these disruptions that we're
oil reserves. China has been building
So, I think if China does choose to draw
supplies, and that would be imports plus
So, I think the current crisis in the
talked about how
is rich in coal resources, and so
terms of increasing
people are pricing in right now markets,
um
So, I think again, looking at this from
Columbia uh University. Thank you so
yeah, there's really no other way to
Khamenei, you know, that doesn't really
although some of these Iran linked or
absolutely. Whenever the dollar does
about an hour back and the question
economic implications for China in the
China's inflation is a bit super low,
latest numbers.
taking the average. That will give you
higher than negative one percent and
want to have a bit of a price
inflation going?
having some impact. Um more importantly,
came out in terms of consumption
support consumption? And here we
technology that that left the less for
willing to do and able to do. Did
we will strive for better outcome. Uh
observing Chinese economy. Okay. Yeah,
into the fray as well. We have entered
moment of course and what the
Then we have to do something with
for sure rate cuts you know are now a
uh the tightening right now and I think
to react
reactionary function is is is the way it
side of things, which is the bottom row,
parts of the markets. And you look at
Where does that leave markets? And is it
now to talk us through the private
Yeah, so at this point with in engaging
Mhm.
credit, but as as we only focus on
particular asset class or region or
uncorrelated to the public market.
that we are in the early innings and
private markets.
that we hear a lot from investors that
future. Continues to be part an
backdrop?
terms of how you're preparing
working on it. So we'll come back to you
Of course, we are still checking markets
have a very sensitive
until now have said this is really kind
still talking about gains right now. We
a I just thought about Let me use a uh a
diabetes, right? Everything else just
that should not have happened.
today. So, relatively speaking,
Yi did speak even as of course the US
earlier talking about Iran, and he
……（接近结尾）……
constitution of Japan.
China correspondent Mimi Lo there
joining us live out of Beijing. Of all
things China, certainly what has been a
very eventful weekend as well. We take a
look at what it comes to the eventful
sort of day we're in store for here. We
continue to see
pretty painful sort of risk assets here
today, right? Take a look at Taipei,
take a look at what it comes to Korea.
That is where you're seeing most of the
pain.
And really dollar and and is continued
to be the king when you take like EMFX
here as well, where we are seeing pretty
record sort of levels here when it comes
to the rupiah and a lot of this part of
the world. So certainly that's one thing
to watch. We are officially in a
correction territory for Asian stocks as
well. And yes, I think now that we've
reached close to $120 oil, we're still
wondering what now.
Yeah, I mean, if you if your market has
done well, you're probably not doing
well today. If you're an oil importer,
you're probably not doing well today. If
you're in EM markets, you're probably
not doing well today. If you tick all
three boxes, then that's probably why
you're underperforming quite
substantially today. So I think Korea,
Taiwan are very good examples of that.
Just an update of course of some of the
strikes across that part of the world
and what we know so far. And as you can
see, we understand that there have been
another round of course across the last
few hours or so. Given we're all, you
know, in case you missed it, right? Why
is oil where it is? You're getting big
producers that have halted production,
not completely, but you have big
producers that have halted production
across some key
projects and oilfields given where you
are when it comes to refineries and
stockpiles and storage is now an issue
given I guess the some of the logistical
bottlenecks that yeah you can't really
send stuff out now given And you look at
what the US position is, where the Iran
position is, and it seems like both
sides are still digging their heels,
right? When you have the son of the
former supreme leader now the leader of
Iran, that does in some ways signal
continuity, right? And that perhaps
their tack in any way now that they have
announced this new leader. So, there is
no regime change as some are now
signaling here as well. And when it
comes to President Trump saying, "Look,
this is just a short-term price to pay
$100 oil for now in this war." So,
certainly it doesn't seem like both
sides are easing in any way. I think
that's why you're seeing that price
premium really built out in a big big
way on this Monday morning. We'll check
of course some more moves after this
break here. This is Bloomberg.
of the Department [music] of Energy.
This is out of the Philippines, which is
really the market that is one of the
standouts to the downside in the
currency markets and the equity markets.
The central bank governor has said 100
is the threshold there that they're
looking to source oil from America and
us just to I guess diversify among the
many things we've heard this morning so
far. Yeah, you know, you hear countries
like Japan, you know, they're ensuring
the stable energy supply. Are these
economies going to have to really tap
into their strategic reserves? That
certainly is one question. I think the
general consensus we get on China is
that they are better positioned in that
front and and they do still have that
option to basically electrify
everything, right? This does actually
ramp up a lot of their plans for energy
transition and renewable energy and the
like here, but the rest of the world may
not be as as as lucky in some ways just
given the fact that where they are in
this whole energy transition. So yes, we
heard that from even just the market
implications as well. Taiwan, they're
saying the stabilization fund may hold
that emergency meeting today as well. Uh
South Korea also looking into that, too.
they're talking about these things
specifically when you look at how the
markets are reacting right now. We'll
wrap the show with this, a look across
assets, equities, forex, [music]
commodities, and bonds.
And it's a terrible day [music] to be
long these markets. This is Bloomberg.