TITLE: What War in Iran Means for Teapot Oil Refineries of China | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 2690  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-13T08:13:37+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k0H_YsHK8IU
SHA256: b5e26b252e832414b2ce14cec37522c2e1a853aaa5b382f116d3b8a7be7f35a4

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2025] imports at the 2025 level. So, you know,
  [400000] around 400,000 barrels per day of crude
  [43%] year, 43%
  [2026] p.m. March [music] 4th, 2026 and
  [11.6] &gt;&gt; Sure. So, last year China imported 11.6
  [1.4] million barrels per day. About 1.4
  [12%] So, that accounted for about 12% of
  [2015] changed back in 2015 when the Chinese
  [2023] 2023 where they said they had calculated
  [4%] share, you know, 3-4% of China's
  [1993] of oil in 1993.
  [1960] 1960s, the time that the
  [2018] like circa 2018, 2019, looking at why
  [2019] like circa 2018, 2019, looking at why
  [2030] years dates closer to 2030, now 2027. At
  [2027] years dates closer to 2030, now 2027. At

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Ever since China's switched to being a
net importer of oil, there have been
real concerns about the vulnerability of
its oil imports and specifically its
seaborne oil imports
by various modern navies, notably that
of the United States. Yeah, that's why
we saw China,
you know,
build these pipelines to deliver the
deliver oil overland from Russia and
from Kazakhstan. And so, given those
concerns, uh given, you know, those
fears that, you know, in the event of a
conflict that pits China, you know, and
the United States, um you know, against
each other, um would China, you know,
would the United States be able to cut
off the flow of oil to China?
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal.
p.m. March [music] 4th, 2026 and
hour and the minute cuz who knows what's
going to happen.
midst of a war with Iran. And it's been
an extraordinary week in markets,
massive surge in the price of oil, all
kinds of concerns about the sheer
logistics of getting oil other as well
as other commodities out of that region.
Who's going to be affected? Um
The ramifications are just global for
obvious reasons.
about, but there are some interesting
angles in particular that you and I have
been discussing and we're going to try
to hit all of those, um sort of
individually in a lot of different
episodes that are coming up. But for
this particular episode, we want to talk
about something that, you know,
obviously the US, Europe have kind of
been I would say the main [snorts]
subject of a lot of the the
hand-wringing at or the focus at the
moment. So Europe we know has had to
grapple with higher energy costs for a
while and clearly, you know, all this
chaos in the Middle East is not going to
be good for that. But one thing that
hasn't gotten as much attention is what
this actually means for China which is a
huge huge purchaser of oil from the
Middle East.
obviously in the US we're sort of
swimming with oil. We're an oil
exporter. This could
This could be very good also for our gas
exports to Europe. I mean already we've
seen this big increase in gas exports
from the US to Europe particularly just
in the wake of the ongoing war in
Ukraine. So this could be further create
further opportunities. But for all the
countries that are, you know, major
importers and China being one is
obviously of a
very different dimension for them.
this particular topic is finally finally
an opportunity to touch on teapot
refiners in China which I always never
got to it. But But now's our chance.
times what a teapot refinery is.
someone says teapot refinery, what do
you think?
just imagine a little refinery. Yeah, I
mean that's it basically. All right.
That was a good guess.
like thinking about it.
really do have the perfect guest today
to sort of talk about the energy
dimension from some angles that have
that deserve and need more exploration
in this precise moment. We're going to
be speaking with Erica Downs. She's a
senior research scholar at Columbia
University Center on Global Energy
Policy and
and an expert truly in this field. So
Erica, thank you so much for coming on
Odd Lots.
audience, would you give us the sort of
brief overview of your work? Tell us a
little bit about what you do in your
general field of study.
geopolitics of energy. And so, I've been
kept busy recently looking at China's
energy relationships with Russia, with
Venezuela, and of course this week with
Iran.
China's relationship with energy at the
moment then? The only thing I know in in
recent times that sort of hit the
headlines is that China's been importing
an enormous amount of oil, which both
suggests that it needs oil and it's an
important thing for its economy to work,
but also that, you know, maybe in the
face of tighter supply coming from the
Middle East, it has something of a
cushion.
oil into storage. They kick-started
their strategic petroleum reserve over
20 years ago and have been building it
up precisely to have a moment like the
one that we are in now.
Now, China, as you mentioned, is a big
importer of oil.
About half the oil that they import come
About half the oil that China imports
comes from the Middle East. Most of
those Middle East oil supplies pass
through the Strait of Hormuz, which is
now closed.
volumes here that we're talking about.
Tracy mentioned that obviously they're
importing
quite a bit and much of it keeping in
storage. Like, okay, we're talking about
Iran or something, how crucial is that
relationship? What do we know about its
volume? What do we know about pricing?
Tell us some more details about this
particular bilateral trading
relationship.
million barrels per day. About 1.4
million barrels per day came from Iran.
So, that accounted for about 12% of
China's crude oil imports.
The main buyers of Iranian oil in China
are the teapot refineries. I've been
following the teapot refineries for a
long time, and I love to talk about
them. So, Joe is very happy to hear you
speak about them in your introduction.
Yeah, and so the teapots are small
independent refineries. Uh
many of them are clustered in Shandong
province. Um they're not as big or
sophisticated as the refineries operated
by China's national oil companies or the
new integrated refining and
petrochemical
uh projects. These are world-scale
projects uh that have uh popped up in
China over the past few years. Uh so,
the teapots are much smaller, less
sophisticated, and they rely on the
discounts they can receive on sanctioned
crudes uh to boost their bottom lines.
And in some cases, they probably depend
on these crudes for their survival. So,
they're the main buyers of Iranian crude
in China. Uh the national oil companies
that were, you know, lifting, you know,
all of Iranian's crude to take back to
China um you know, 10, 15 years ago are
completely out of the Iran oil trading
business uh because of concerns about US
sanctions.
And I was going to say, and just to to
bring this back to the teapots, you
know, the reason why they are buying and
the national oil companies, China's
national oil companies aren't is because
the teapots are more risk tolerant. And
what I mean by that is that the national
oil companies have a vested interest in
maintaining access to the US dollar
financial system. You know, these are
global companies with the
operations. They don't want to lose that
access. Whereas, if you look at the
Teapots who are still buying Iranian
crude today, I suspect that they have
little or no, you know, interest in
maintaining access to the US dollar
financial system. Sure, they'd prefer
not to be sanctioned, but it sanctions
being sanctioned wouldn't be
catastrophic for them in the way it
might be for Sinopec or China National
Petroleum Corporation. And so, it's this
risk tolerance, as well as this pursuit
of discounted barrels that has made the
Teapots the biggest importers of Iranian
crude in China.
Teapot tangent. How's that for
alliteration, Joe? Thank you.
But, how did we end up with this
situation where we have these national
refining giants in China, which I
assume, you know, enjoy support from the
state, and they enjoy all the benefits
of scale, and then you have these tiny
or smaller refiners, independent
refiners that have sort of cropped up.
Like, how did that system actually
begin?
background. So, the Teapot refineries,
which are actually called local
refineries in China,
sort of originated, they grew up in
China, in northeastern China to process
crude from the Shengli oil field, you
know, which historically was one of
China's backbone oil fields.
And for most of their existence, you
know, these Teapots, you know, did not
have the right to import
and process imported crude. And this all
……（中部抽样）……
changed back in 2015 when the Chinese
licenses to purchase and process
getting rid of highly
it or not. Um and so, you know, teapots
and they could use that quota to
know, around the time that they uh got
slate of suppliers. But, as
were on offer to entice buyers to take
intuitively, okay, a country gets
risk getting sanctioned themselves. So,
we have a sense of like what the pricing
barrels are certainly attractive enough
often reported in industry press as, you
how important these are to the teapots,
on crude oil imports by importing these
benefiting from the discount between
general. But, I mean
more Russian oil to offset some of the
the Trump's removal of Venezuelan
questions about how much oil how much
of potential shortfall in their
which was is, you know, a decent
the Middle East, you know, this is sort
are sitting on substantial
provide
know, if China was unable to import any
4 months of crude oil imports. And so,
Strait of Hormuz, you know, they're
storage in Asia, off the coast of China
Iran. And there is also Iranian oil
the
picture now? Cuz I think we're I think
the significance of the of that piece of
Venezuela, you know, supplied, you know,
share, you know, 3-4% of China's
So, while you can say, "Oh, China's not
does sort of make life more difficult
sold some Venezuelan crude to China. Um
they would like to, you know, continue
current situation um means that they
the US, you know, I think a big question
talking point during the Biden
China's SPR, what are the actual goals
actually know about it?
of oil in 1993.
building a strategic petroleum reserve,
know, to deal with uh unexpected
quite some time and I recall, you know,
this? Can we afford it? You know, how
members of the International Energy
stockpiles um you know, equal to, you
Chinese discussions about its SPR over
China that were saying, you know, we
net oil import coverage? You know, but
storage in China, you know, to include
more than 90 days of net oil import
of upheavals in um you know, crude oil
that China does is sitting on these uh
project.
like, you know, there's some question,
years ago. Or at the time, certainly at
not surprised that it's sort of used to
In China where you know, the automobile,
be less important over time. How much is
in the event of
having the resources to fight a war if
have been real concerns about the
that of the United States. Yeah, that's
from Kazakhstan. And so given those
the United States um you know, against
to put this you know, sort of even in
the relationship between China and the
heavily reliant on the Soviet Union for
between China and the Soviet Union
in, you know, a tense relationship with
ask just about China's foreign policy
describe it as the kind of thing you
expressed concern over the attacks on
What's your sense of I guess what is at
national oil companies are big producers
building other types of infrastructure
operating
you know, Beijing called not just you
sure that civilians aren't hit, right?
You know, it doesn't want any of its
outside of like main Dubai, there was
love it. Absolutely. Like everything
that sounds like the most interesting
made me
maybe you do and maybe you don't.
has its own twist. It's good food
little too good. Yeah, there we go.
surveillance.
realized up until recently, and it it
unlike the US, like we have an
China does it that way. Talk a little
telling Iran, like be careful in your
like we're seeing China make any
doing some of that covertly, but they
a fairly substantial economic
Western hegemony and so forth, you know,
think strategically about the region
to maintain good relations with Saudi
tightrope you know, in trying to
you know, I think they have been pretty
region. So, we're not going to see China
Beijing, you know, recently announced, I
so, I think that China likes playing
outside power uh that is, you know,
ask you is just more broadly, you've
thing you think people should know about
China's changing role in the global
China's role in global energy markets,
coal importer,
transitioning to a lower-carbon future.
installations in China.
You know, that I think one thing China
Iran, is that you know, it's better just
an energy security story for China.
technologies that the rest of the world
those three sets of goals. And so, we
interesting to sort of think about this
dominance, which of course is focused
of when I think about my that my
being more of a stick, whereas I think
appealing to a lot of countries in the
want to be vulnerable to supply
and uh you can buy solar panels from us
farm, then, you know, countries don't
did a lot of work a number of years ago,
Pakistan when the country had, you know,
solar. And when I was, you know, so I
they were spending a lot of, you know,
know, to you know, to to to for to run
past year about how you have individual
that they have, um you know, affordable
thinking back to that earlier research
exchange or conserve foreign exchange
the savings off the top of my head, but
today, like fossil fuel dominant is
fossil fuel capacity reserves in the US,
like at some point
Chinese technology, whether we're
their bill. And so, the payments that
from China.
um, you know, oil China's demand for
You know, with gasoline, it's been the
know, some of China's national oil
know, and before I was seeing you know,
2025.
transport fuel peak, but China will
these green technologies, right? Like,
lithium ion batteries. So, there is, you
to
what's happening now in Iran and the
broader, I guess, energy energy prices.
much of that curtailed supply can just
oil, but I'd actually like to turn to
East. Almost all of that comes from
lies outside the Strait of Hormuz, but
UAE,
strategic gas reserve
the longer
is going to be under pressure to cobble
know, that they can do is find ways to
you know, is going to help China do
you know, certainly at the big
right now because prices are just too
there?
And this statistic is really of interest
often note that on paper, you know,
bigger than or, you know, almost as big
but basically, you know,
you know, are we going to see a shale
know, different, uh, factors in the
people who were sitting above, you know,
you know, the, uh, shale revolution was
……（接近结尾）……
then they go big on this relatively
quickly and probably faster than it
usually happens in places like the
States. But you're saying for this one
thing, for for fracking, that wasn't the
case, which is very surprising to me.
build-up of, you know, unconventional,
uh, gas production in China. And of
course, you know, when I say 43% of gas
production, um, um you know, it's from
unconventional sources, you know, that's
also including things like like tight
gas. It's it's not all shale, although
shale is absolutely part of the story.
Yeah, and so, you know, to your point,
yes, this was sort of a much gradual
this was like a much more gradual build
up in
um unconventional gas production.
conversation. I learned a lot in uh that
45 minutes. Really appreciate you coming
on to Odd Lots, and um yeah, thanks for
joining us.
conversation. I didn't know that about
the um I mean, I guess I'm not surprised
that there were small refineries, but
that they serve this very strategic
purpose of not having those
international, I guess, liabilities,
right? They don't have the same
liability.
guess, like the the more regulated,
official energy industry. It's and it's
fascinating to me, A,
it's a good exercise in branding, cuz I
just find the teapot name so compelling,
but also, it's like an entire arbitrage
industry, right?
Like, oil is what There's always going
to be someone sanctioned, right? That's
That seems like safe. There's always
especially in
and someone, somewhere, is going to have
their oil sanctioned.
but they're going to sell it, and
they're going to sell it at a discount,
and obviously, any buyer of sanctioned
commodities is going to be taking on
some sort of risk that they're going to
get slapped with like a secondary
sanction or penalty, and so forth. So,
it makes sense to have a sort of a, you
know, decentralized cottage industry.
Cottage industry, it's another
cute-sounding thing. It's not really
cute.
yeah, this separate industry that does
not have the same They're not exposed in
the same way.
interested to hear. Obviously, the
discussion around the strategic
petroleum reserve was very interesting.
This idea that, you know,
there might be foreign policy
considerations behind building up that
strategic supply.
Also, the idea that shale hasn't taken
off as fast in China. Like again, that
really surprises me because we're so
used to hearing that one of the benefits
of a command economy is that you can
more or less, you know,
direct this big stuff, and it doesn't
seem to have happened in the case of
shale. And again, maybe that maybe
that's more of a strategic decision
surmise, and this is just speculation,
is like, no, like the big priority is
the renewables, right? The big priority
is batteries, solar, wind, and so forth.
And they've And I do think this is like
going to be the big I don't know how
long it'll take place, but the big shift
that's already happening, I guess, under
underway is this like a bunch of other
countries that aren't the US and aren't
China are going to want to reduce their
energy import bill, and they're going to
swap it for an energy technology bill
that they license from China, and that
is a long-term um
war are in the short term going to raise
China's import bill and others, and in
the long term or the medium term,
encourage more countries to accelerate
that transition. So, that's a pretty big
story.
working in Chinese shale or fracking or
has attempted to work in Chinese shale
or fracking, I'd be very interested in
talking to them. So, definitely
You know,
version, um but I bet that would be
interesting.
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway.
You can follow me at Tracy Alloway.
me at The Stalwart. Follow our guest
Erica Downs, she's at Erica Downs.
Follow our producer Carmen Rodriguez at
Carmen Arman dash at a dash bot and Kil
Brooks at Kil Brooks.
should check out our daily newsletter.
You can find that at
in our Discord 24/7. That's
discord.gg/odd
lots.
then please leave a comment or like the
video or better yet, subscribe.