TITLE: The Airport Meltdown
CHANNEL: The Daily
DURATION_S: 1718  DENSITY: brief  REQ summary=2 core=3
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-26T14:29:29+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9U8neEjEis0
SHA256: 8be57b2e72fc7e870f4bdf4a9825e35f905b1f4e1dcf480d77732431d3131a1b

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [50000] that's a workforce of 50,000 people who
  [40%] 40%. And then that is going to translate
  [30%] consistently go above 30%. That's a
  [50%] um, 50% level at some of these airports

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Daily producer Diana Wynn here. It's
9:00 in the morning. I am at Terminal E
at George Bush Intercontinental Airport
in Houston. There's a line snaking out
the door to get through security.
And we are going to go and talk to some
of these people.
How are you feeling right now?
I was very stressed the last couple of
days. On Monday, I was in security for 5
and 1/2 hours getting literally to this
very point where I was now, and then I
missed my flight. I was here on Monday.
I came on Tuesday and turned the wrong
side. This is my third day trying to
make it home. Oh my gosh.
From The New York Times, I'm Michael
Barbaro.
This is The Daily. My flight's at 2:45.
So, you're giving yourself 5 6
of travelers have endured over the past
week became official. I'm here 7 hours
before the flight
so that I make it today. According to
the TSA,
security checkpoints at American
airports are now experiencing their
longest wait times in history. Honestly,
the day I had on Monday
was one of the worst travel experiences
I've ever had. There was no water, no
food. It was horrible.
That's not human.
Today,
my colleague Karen De Mercian on what's
led to the stunning delays, and Michael
Gold on the increasingly urgent
negotiations in Congress to bring this
crisis to an end. Is there anyone that
you feel like is responsible for this
situation?
Certainly the politicians. The
government, for sure. Donald Trump. I
think it is a failure of our government.
It's Thursday, March 26th.
Karen, you are based in Washington, D.C.
where it finally seems like these
obscene airport security line wait times
are finally bringing lawmakers to the
negotiating table, which we are going to
talk about with our colleague on Capitol
Hill, Michael Gold, in the second half
of this episode. Let's begin with you
and the misery at these airports and why
it's become so acute over the past few
days and then a few airports, just a
full-blown crisis. Well, in short, you
can't shut down the Department of
Homeland Security indefinitely without
starting to see failures happen in the
system. And when it comes to the TSA,
that's a workforce of 50,000 people who
have been working unpaid for the last
month and a half, basically. They're,
you know, really the the front line of
where we are seeing the effects of that
shutdown play out and are having to
survive this duration that has been
going on for already a month and a half
and have needed to start calling out of
work because they have to find other
sources of income to live in the
interim. And that means you don't have
the same workforce doing the job that is
really important to anybody who's trying
to get on a plane. Now, that breakdown
is not just affecting the individual lay
traveler citizen, it's also started to
affect other government functions.
You saw that in the response to the
accident that happened at LaGuardia
earlier this week, the National
Transportation Safety Board investigates
aviation incidents like this and they
couldn't actually get all their
investigators to LaGuardia because they
got stuck for hours in security lines
and they had to try to wrangle them out
of it. Wow. You've seen the
administration, the Trump
administration, deploy ICE officials,
even though they are not really trained
to be TSA screeners, uh to various
airports around the country. And then in
places like Atlanta, I mean, we we saw
there was a viral social media clip of a
electric violinist entertaining
everybody standing in an interminably
long line.
Which some might have found entertaining
and others might have found that much
more annoying. But this is the scene
that's playing out in both official and
unofficial and comical ways at these
airports across the country as they face
these record long wait times. Right. And
as you said, this really goes back to
a shutdown, a very unique shutdown of a
single agency. And this started, and we
covered it almost every step of the way,
with congressional Democrats seeking to
defund the Department of Homeland
Security in the aftermath of the
immigration crackdowns, especially in
Minneapolis, that killed two US
citizens, Rene Good and Alex Pretly. And
this was never intended to hurt airport
security workers, but
of course the understanding is that it
might, and now it has.
A question I have is why did it take so
long for airports to devolve into this
amount of chaos, given that the
shutdown's been going on for a fairly
long time? Right. Well, the shutdown
started in mid-February, right? And
you're not going to feel the immediate
effect of that because, you know, people
don't get paid for every day's work.
People get paid every 2 weeks or so,
right? And so, the workers for TSA are
on a similar schedule. They're going to
start to feel the pain of it once the
money isn't coming into their bank
accounts. And TSA workers, you're
talking about salaries that are around
$50,000.
You know, that's not a lot of money to
build up savings. And so, what we're
seeing is that these TSA workers are
having to find sources of funding to get
them through life and having to seek out
other gigs here and there. But you know,
they're running out of the ability to
feed their kids in some cases, right?
And so you are seeing a pain on a
personal level happen and them having to
make on an individual basis cost-benefit
analyses of, you know, do I show up for
my job knowing I will eventually get a
paycheck for that once this shutdown
ends or do I find money that I need now?
Happening on a scale of several tens of
thousands of people and it's it's
concentrated in these areas that end up
having more difficult cost-of-living
sorts of situations for more of the TSA
workers than others. Just just explain
that. How in certain areas, certain
regions, and I assume certain airports,
what seem like universal conditions of
unpaid TSA workers is having greater
repercussions. So there's two kind of
factors to think about this. One is what
is your cost of living in the area in
which this airport is, right? JFK, it's
a pretty expensive area, right? And so
when you're talking about bills that are
piling up, those are pretty big bills.
But then think about places like
Houston. Houston's been a persistent
problem with the long security lines.
And Houston, it's a huge huge metro
area. It's like 80 miles across if not
more, right? And so then the question
becomes, well, okay, it's also gas in
the car. It's also hours that I have to
spend on the road not finding other
sources of income to keep my family
going. There's multiple factors that
each TSA worker has to take into account
when they're kind of determining what's
the budget I have to meet in order to
not go into so much debt that I am
risking eviction. And what have you come
to understand about the nature of these
workers
calling in and saying, "I'm not coming
to work." Is this organized in places
like Houston or in New York where cost
of living is expensive?
Or are people just of their own volition
making these financial determinations
and calling in and saying, "I can't come
to work." And it just multiplies on top
of itself? So the union that represents
TSA workers will push back hard against
any sort of suggestion that these are
like organized political statement sort
of call-outs where people are calling in
their absences. And say instead that,
you know, this is just reflecting the
reality of what everybody who's working
in those particular areas that have seen
the longest security lines is having to
go through, which is why you've seen in
places like Houston the number of
call-outs on certain days go up above
40%. And then that is going to translate
directly into pain for the airline
traveler, right? Same sort of thing at
JFK you've seen call-out numbers
consistently go above 30%. That's a
long, long line.
You had mentioned this. President Trump
……（中部抽样）……
decides to bring ICE agents in as a
calling out.
whether it's been working. So, the logic
more bodies, so send them to help out
everybody believes that's the actual
actually they are there to try to
apprehensions and deportations, and the
to be performing that role when they
And then the TSA,
union, they really don't like it because
guys were not trained to do what we do.
around an ICE official. The TSA is
comfortable when they're doing your
because they weren't trained to do it,
these security lines at all. So, they
like they're trying to be engaged, but
your bags or getting people through
are they giving?
know, added insult upon injury because
there was this pot of tens of billions
policy bill that has been used to pay
not being paid and still having to then
irony, of course, that this shutdown was
Democrats who began it, and now the
the airports to alleviate the pain
to be about ICE. I mean, exactly. That's
right? The shutdown that is supposed to
hurting ICE because ICE has backup rainy
any other part of DHS. And the people
workers, then end up getting supposedly
ICE. And then that becomes a next
you know, the GOP being like, "Look,
do this." Even though they're trying to
being like, "Look, they're not doing
and all the more reason that ICE is, you
cue the next chapter of the mudslinging.
afternoon, when
really able to screen people and speed
situation, and what is DHS and TSA
like
Look, the TSA administrator told
Wednesday morning that we're seeing some
and the longest wait times in history.
their jobs. Now, 480 workers out of the
or break a system, but the problem is
to train up a new TSA officer. Wow. And
if you had all of those 480 people ready
that won't get them up and running and
requirements of the job before we have
summer when we're expecting a huge
hopefully the shutdown gets resolved by
lot more people trying to use the system
another chapter of this problem even if
Right. 480 TSA workers leaving could
number of people calling out could reach
various airports.
really the call outs number. If that
higher than, you know, the 40% level,
or if you start to see numbers like that
country,
is fragile system can actually take.
Trump administration officials that, you
close if things get much worse. And
those lines can get even longer. How
potential system breakdown though really
an agreement sooner rather than later.
appreciate it. Thank you.
correspondent Michael Gold on whether or
an agreement to end this crisis.
having me. You are on Capitol Hill. I
place for me to be.
Well, you're actually there covering
crisis at America's airports, which I
because the shutdown at the center of
airports. It was about reforming ICE, as
become about airports. So, everyone's
on both sides of the aisle, are not
I think that's a good way to frame it.
This was not a shutdown about America's
When this started, everyone knew that
some point, but Democrats were really
enforcement, and they don't want to come
concern that federal immigration agents
reined in, and that there needs to be
Democrats see as abuses by the system.
Democrats are asking for too much, and
what's going on at the airports. Look at
for weeks, and they say it's time for us
think as we've seen these lines get out
country, a lot of Democrats are looking
pressure's on. It's time for us to reach
together and and make something happen."
negotiations, which had been kind of
few weeks, really start to pick up
actually
achieved seemingly nothing over the past
pick up steam? What do What did you
and I should say it's Wednesday
often the case with any negotiations in
very fragile at the same time. So, just
we talk about what's going on, but Fair.
deal and I think it makes sense to start
White House border czar, came to Capitol
senators and talk about a way to end the
This is the first time that that Homan
immigration in Minneapolis and it was a
who watched them that the White House is
this whole situation. So, Homan comes
Republicans saying, "We're open to
enforcement and some changes to the way
unwilling to give some ground to the
behind this shutdown.
we can agree on. There's some stuff that
together and find a path out of this
head into the weekend, Republicans come
they bring to the White House and they
We're going to fund all of the
for the parts of ICE that deal with
Well, we should say that that's a that's
It's a huge concession to Democrats
get-go that they did not want to pass a
like their main point. They didn't want
restrictions on federal agents and
"Okay, we will pass a bill that does
parts of this department that you don't
potential breakthrough. So, they bring
proposal, and it gets to President
President says, "I don't want to make a
a step further and says, "I don't want
also take up this separate bill, the
restrictions on voting and requires
show talking about, I think, a week or
nothing to do with the DHS shutdown or
Right. That's correct. And if you were
the Senate has been basically debating
their main focus, but they've also been
is the first time that the president has
together. Huh. So, that brings us to
frozen. And that is when Trump decides
help out the TSA, relieve the long
all this work they're doing.
to them,
that this crisis at the airports was all
there's one other thing that I think is
Majority Leader, has said to the
that you would be leaving on Friday for
done to get us out of this crisis,
do." Mhm. And senators are just like us.
their breaks, and they like to go home.
make a deal at the same time that Trump
on, a group of senators who are pretty
people like Senator Katie Britt from
Lindsey Graham, they go to the White
to try and convince the president that
they've pitched. Mhm. And they managed
out. And so now things are back on. And
right now,
are still really far apart. Republicans
to find everything except for
doesn't have any of the new restrictions
order to agree to fund the rest of the
version of the deal,
different from the first version that
this. It has all their demands on
these requests that they've made of the
the White House already agreed to that
their offer.
heated negotiation with a lot of back
talking about Congress, it's kind of
There's the paper, there's the text,
exchanged,
there's the vibes.
……（接近结尾）……
when Secretary Mullen was at his
confirmation hearing, he said, "Yes, I
would want to require
ICE agents to get warrants when they're
entering private homes." That was a big
deal for Democrats, and it was something
the White House hadn't yet conceded. And
I think there were a lot of Democrats
who saw that as a sign that things were
going to change with ICE, and that
things were going to change with the
Department of Homeland Security. And so,
even if they don't get everything that
they're requesting, I think a lot of
Democrats feel like they successfully
drew attention to a major issue, and
they were able to extract some
concessions. The flip side of that is
there are a lot of Democrats who look at
the Trump administration and say, "If we
want anything concrete, we need it to be
law, because things could change at any
moment." So, if you had to crystal ball
this for the next week or so,
as
lines at airports get even longer
because the TSA workers aren't being
paid, as perhaps more TSA workers than
the 480 who have already left quit their
job, and as senators and House members
don't get to go home for this 2-week
break that they all want, do you suspect
that some deal is going to get reached
along the lines of what we're talking
about here pretty soon, or could this
actually all blow up in this crisis just
get worse and worse?
My answer to that is yes and yes. I
think we are in a delicate situation
here.
As much as the Senate's going to
continue negotiating and there is an
incentive for senators to reach a deal
both so that TSA agents get paid and so
they can leave Washington.
There are a few factors that are going
to make that complicated and I would say
that none of those factors are more
complicated than the president himself
because ultimately you need President
Trump to buy into any deal.
The Senate's not going to want to move
if the White House isn't okay with it.
And frankly,
any deal the Senate reaches also has to
be passed by the House where Republicans
have a very very narrow majority and
where the president's arm-twisting
essentially has been really necessary to
get bills like this across the finish
line.
So on the one hand, yes, it's feeling
positive. There seems to be a lot of
energy here. Everyone feels really good.
On the other hand, we've seen
negotiations fall apart for any number
of reasons here. I've been here a year
and it's happened countless times. So I
don't want to predict soon or not soon.
But it's hard to imagine that Congress
is going to see continued chaos at
airports, people waiting 5 hours and
missing their flights. It's hard to
imagine they're going to look around and
want to be the ones who are holding the
bag for the complete collapse of
American air travel.
Oh Michael, as always, thank you very
much. Anytime, Michael.
Here's what else you need to know today.
In a landmark verdict, a jury found that
YouTube and Meta, the parent company of
Facebook, harmed a young user with
design features that were addictive and
that led to the deterioration of her
mental health.
The case was brought by a now
20-year-old woman who accused the social
media companies of creating products and
features, such as infinite scroll, that
are as dangerous as cigarettes.
The verdict, which both companies are
likely to appeal, validates a novel
legal theory outlined in a recent
episode of The Daily that social media
companies and apps can cause personal
injury.
And Iran has dismissed President Trump's
proposal for a ceasefire that would end
the war.
A military spokesman insisted that the
conflict would end
only on Iran's terms.
Today's episode was produced by Michael
Simon Johnson, Shannon Lin, Lexi Diao,
Diana Wynn, and Alex Stern.
It was edited by Brendan Klinkenberg,
contains music by Mary LaDonna.
Our theme music is by Wonderly.
This episode was engineered by Chris
Wood.
That's it for The Daily. I'm Michael
Barbaro.
See you tomorrow.