TITLE: Formula 1: Fast cars, celebrities, and B2B software (Audio)
CHANNEL: Acquired Podcast Full Episodes
DURATION_S: 16112  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-05T23:34:27+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MyFzfgrZUYg
SHA256: 100461e94355ca5fb55aaad480c76df54c8cd237dd103a10988223fb4ba07acb

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2000] early 2000s once again. But it's
  [2010] beautiful documentary released in 2010
  [1950] 1950. But unlike a traditional company
  [2008] then 2008 hits. The biggest teams with
  [2017] over in 2017. He had a few lawyers and
  [25%] another 25% from them for 600 million
  [75%] pounds and gain 75% majority ownership
  [2026] &gt;&gt; Welcome to the spring 2026 season of
  [1970] Prix crash in the 1970s didn't get much
  [50%] more fuel efficient with only 50% of
  [2021] profitable, Toto Wolf estimated in 2021
  [3.4] does $3.4 billion in revenue. And the
  [1.4] deaths. So that's 1.4 a year. In the
  [1972] had. And in 1972, Bernie buys the Brabom
  [8%] taking 8% off the top for his fees,
  [30%] splitting out that the FIA gets 30%.
  [2014] I think it was 2014. It moved the sport
  [2022] 2022 to 2025 regulations, which that's
  [1993] championships in 1992 and 1993 with
  [2018] &gt;&gt; The halo. So in 2018, in response to the
  [1.1] &gt;&gt; 1.1 1.2 billion invested.
  [4.4] for $4.4 billion of equity value and
  [19%] initially acquire a like 18 19% stake in
  [3.1] Prix in 2024 was 3.1 million Americans.
  [70%] the way through to today. So today 70%
  [2005] in 2005, a long time later, he finally
  [100%] &gt;&gt; Absolutely great point and you are 100%
  [23%] And FOA, Bernie's company, gets 23%.
  [2025] 2022 to 2025 regulations, which that's
  [37%] February of 2000 they sell a 37% stake
  [2009] FIA, etc. In 2009,
  [2016] in 2016,
  [60%] 2026 is about 430 million. About 60% of
  [2024] &gt;&gt; So then 3 years later on in 2024,
  [2019] 2018 season and I think maybe 2019 2020
  [33%] bullc case for F1 here, 33% of F1's
  [1930] into a sport that started in the 1930s
  [1958] &gt;&gt; That's right. So, in 1958, Chapman
  [1961] spectators. In the 1961 Italian Grand
  [10%] &gt;&gt; So that's five to 10% of the entire

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
I was just listening to the F1 theme
song to get pumped up.
HQ North and actually thanks to a
recommendation from a listener in the
Acquired Slack and yeah, it was bumping
Is it you? Is it? Is it you? Who got the
truth?
Is it
me down?
Another story on the way.
Acquired, the podcast about great
companies and the stories and playbooks
behind them. I'm Ben Gilbert.
into a sport that started in the 1930s
that began for the pure love of
autoracing. extremely dangerous auto
racing. Then after World War II, the
British Air Force veterans and
mechanical engineers joined the sport to
push the limits of technology and
physics. It eventually became the sport
of rich guys who want to own teams to
gallivant around Europe, losing colossal
sums of money along the way. And in
fact, David, since the sport began, over
100 separate teams have entered and
exited the competition, mostly because
they went bankrupt. And today, the sport
has been dragged kicking and screaming
into being professionally managed and is
now owned by the publicly traded US
company that has owned the Atlanta
Braves, SiriusXM, and Live Nation. That
is Liberty Media. And against all odds,
Liberty has managed to turn the sport,
the teams, and the drivers into real
viable businesses. Today's episode,
listeners, is on Formula 1, the world's
premier motorsport series. Woo. I was
going to save this for um later in the
episode, but do you know what else among
the many other like hundreds of
companies that Liberty has owned? Do you
know what else they owned? You won't
guess it because there's so many. Excite
at home.
listeners, really what we're doing here
today with Formula 1, it's three sports
in one. It is, of course, the world's
best race car drivers showcasing their
skills, but it's also the World Cup of
Engineering. These days, it's fair to
say that the races are more determined
by the design feats of the thousand plus
people that work on each car than the
drivers. And Formula 1 is the only
motorsport in the world that requires a
team to design and build their own car
from scratch, which is an insane
engineering feat to enter the
competition. And as one listener put it
to us, it's also the World Cup of Office
Politics. Or as another one put it, it's
Real Housewives of the garage, which
that makes for a fantastic Netflix show.
that towards the end of the episode
here.
insane. It is a grid of 20 drivers
competing at over 200 mph in races that
last 190 miles. And they do this every
week or two in a different city around
the world. They load the entire circus,
the cars, the teams, the hospitality
onto a fleet of seven Boeing 7s between
races and they set up shop in 24
different cities from Monaco to Bahrain
to Melbourne, Australia. Each car costs
$20 million to make and hundreds of
millions of dollars to develop. The cars
have three to 600 sensors on them. And
shockingly to me as an American, David,
I don't know if you knew this before we
started researching. It's actually the
world's most popular annual sporting
series with over 827
million viewers.
researching because we're Americans
Cup don't count because they're every
two and four years. So pretty crazy.
Listeners, starting in just 5 days, a
season will kick off that's going to see
some of the biggest changes in the sport
in decades. So, we've got new
regulations, which means all new car
designs, an expansion to an 11th team
with Cadillac, Audi and Ford are also
entering the sport, and a brand new
broadcast partner in the US in Apple TV.
And well, uh, everything got much more
professionalized. It's still owned by a
bunch of rich guys who love auto racing.
guys.
our NFL, NBA, and IPL cricket episodes,
this show is about the business of F1.
So, uh, we apologize in advance if we
don't spend time on your favorite
rivalry or regulation detail or the V10
engine sound. You can join the email
list to get updates every time an
episode drops at acquired.fm/e.
You get to vote on future episodes. And
the email list is just getting much,
much better. So, we now have episode
summaries, our big takeaways, and
exclusive photos from our research
process. That's acquired.fm/email.
Chat about this afterwards with us with
the whole acquired community in the
Slack. Acquired.fm/slack.
And before we dive in, we want to thank
our presenting sponsor JP Morgan
Payments. Yes. And just like how we say
every company has a story, every
company's story is powered by payments.
and JP Morgan Payments is a part of so
many of their journeys from seed to IPO
and beyond.
investment advice. David and I may have
investments in the companies we discuss
and this show is forformational and
entertainment purposes only. David
Rosenthal, where do we dive in? Well,
first off, we owe a huge thank you to
Joshua Robinson and Jonathan Kle who are
the sports editors over at the Wall
Street Journal and just recently
published I think the best business
history book of Formula 1 called The
Formula. It was one of the main sources
for this episode and uh they both
actually helped us in the research. So,
thank you guys.
really started after World War II in
1950. But unlike a traditional company
or even many of the sports leagues that
we've studied over the years, it doesn't
have a exact sort of founding moment.
Its origins are really part and parcel
with the beginning of motor racing
itself. So, it didn't take long after
the invention of the modern automobile,
which is generally agreed upon to be by
Carl Benz in Germany in the late 1800s,
that people had the idea to start
people raced horses, why wouldn't they
race cars, too?
the 1900s, various automobile clubs
popped up across Europe, and they would
host these races. They'd sell tickets
and advertising to fund prize purses and
drivers and manufacturers would travel
from all over the world to compete in
these races. 1906, the Automobile Club
of France, which was the largest in
Europe at the time, hosts an inaugural
race just to the southwest of Paris
called Lemon, Lan.
And this group of organizers, they
decide to call this Lemon race by a very
literal name in order to attract
spectators and participants. They call
it the Grand Prix de Lemon. Literally
translated as the big prize.
to this day.
literal.
So the success of this Leong Grand Prix
causes a bunch of similar races to pop
up across Europe all throughout the
teens and 20s copying the same rules or
formula as the Automobile Club of
France. You had Monza pop up in Italy.
You had the Monte Carlo race in Monaco.
You had the Nurburg Ring in Germany,
etc., etc., etc. You've probably heard
of all these places.
major European automobile clubs get
together in Paris and they say why don't
we centralize oversight of this formula
into one international organization and
that becomes after a series of name
changes over the years the Federas
International Delotmobile
or the FIA which still exists today and
still administers the rules of Formula
1. And as Josh and Jonathan point out in
the book, the sport is literally named
after the rule book.
rules in this sport, both when they're
setting the rules every few years and in
races when they're going up to yell at
the race stewards, oh, this is illegal,
this is not illegal. Anyone who is sort
of complaining that this sport is too
into the rules, needs to remember it is
named after them.
these Grand Prix and these famous
racetracks that you know today, and you
have the FIA as this sort of rules body
overseeing the common regulations
amongst them, but they're all
independent events. There's no
championship series. There's no league.
There's one winner at the end of each
race and then you go to the next race.
II to create a championship series, but
they all fizzle and then of course the
war disrupts everything. After the war,
however, there's renewed interest.
Everybody wants to have a world drivers
……（中部抽样）……
championship. And so in 1949, the FIA
been France or maybe Germany. Well,
Colin Chapman who also happened to be a
championship
just from the engineering for the cars,
actually really weird. Go look at any of
an FBI sting in LA attempting to buy 220
Hermes episode, married the American
becoming stars themselves. I mean, like
actually founded the company before
calendar, this set of Grand Prix
the like legitimizing soul of Hermes,
Formula 1 and auto racing. But while
And there were many, many more crashes
extends far beyond just attending an
have to be. And that's the point.
business in London with surplus cars and
in 2005, a long time later, he finally
dealership and his brand associated with
after his death, but he was so far ahead
joint travel and transport logistics to
actually have any real money. I mean,
Grand Prix separately. So, they're like
There was none of it.
longer term play of like, oo, what can I
you're all open to do business with me
writes anything down. And when the dust
the decade he's gotten it up to 200k. So
through the constructor's association.
it like an NGO?
all the TV money flowing through Bernie,
figure this out? Good luck to you."
right?
goes and sets up a new company, Formula
Now Bernie also gets really lucky here
tracks, no races. We want in on this.
there's a lot of complexity here. You're
All of a sudden, TV rights go from small
It really was only fans that were
putting it on a car that happened to
go to the Las Vegas Grand Prix with
over the years?
we've built the AI control tower. It
like little hints of what Formula 1
the issue, of course, is that with a big
mean, Google it. We'll put it in the
called venturi tunnels.
of the downforce from those cars is
because if it's more efficient, you can
landscape. Yes. And it did become an
of them and they work very very well.
decreases the amount that the driver
another 14. In the 70s there were 12.
safer, but obviously they still have a
runoffs and upgraded barriers. So that
go fast, the more they're going to be
physics instead of the rules of the FIA
kind of professional organization. He
in 90 soon 100, 120, 130 countries, all
himself.
Grand Prix, and I ran into none other
times each week. They recently launched
could keep control of F1 after his
that Bernie hatches a plan with his
of their own? I don't know.
In this new agreement, Bernie swaps in a
streams by the revenue streams from the
bankers would recall her response being,
crash. So this German company em.tv,
misses their interest payments.
also buy out Bernie and Slavic's 25%.
historic ones like Monaco and Monza and
desert outside the city. So Bernie's on
stupid? If they think I'm going to go
rich, too," has way worn out its
you know, strategic or R&amp;D or brand
are just a winning F1 team for their
deals. There's a lot of value in what
biggest thing is it's just this kind of
period, you know about uh Spygate and
think we can say manufacturer because
experience. The same input doesn't
insane. So briefly, Dietrich Matitz was
title sponsor of the Saur team in 1995.
the challenges F1 faces of its aging
Ford is willing to sell the whole team
radical open door policy. So previously
Survive, uh you probably know all about
caught.
seasons after they enter the league, uh,
have developed so much competency in
but see if you can figure it out as we
of his generation,
loophole with the way tires work in F1.
degrees of freedom of parts of the car
this world.
this Bernie of course gets wind of
people into F1."
suck.
Australia in Melbourne. These two Braraw
after everybody else also figures out
team. They clearly are interested.
more than that.
valuation increase.
Zack Brown at McLaren is also he
including BlackRock, um the Norwegian
commercial rights to Formula 1 from the
traded company into the Formula One
that was Chase. So he's the right man
hanging fruit everywhere here
closest that I can think of is Pete
they can't run a viable business.
restrictions. It's gone from 145 million
everything. Uh then they have kind of
couple decades ago,
Toto is a major equity owner in the
about? That's not good for the sport. I
get to participate in that.
coordinate social media.
control the journalist access. I control
by Electronic Arts, makers of Madden and
revenue, no utilization of that.
elements layer in race cars going super
Amazon already had something in the
we do think we're the best partner for
highly opinionated version with full
seasons one and two, which we heard was
row at the same track. They were
of people watching a single piece of you
saving it for Drive to Survive was bring
the US now has 52 million American fans,
did have one in Vegas before, but it was
having someone else run the race, they
Now in Vegas. We were just beginning our
can be a $50 to hund00 million deal and
car. The most valuable real estate, I
attention to most of the time that
to America part of it, right after
their hands this past summer with the F1
the top for the US media rights
integrated sort of the channel is the
manufacturers. Stake has become Audi.
that's that's not just marketing.
powerhouse or if they can that would be
around this new rule set where it's
listen to audio.
trucks. If if you line these up, it
other and just rearranging the flight
promoters.
primary revenue driver,
interesting. The driver's championship
team gets around 6%. So to keep the math
back of the pack penalized with less
at 1.5 billion. Then at the top end, uh
person or an entity. The funny thing is
billion.
about is are teams getting their share
to all the books during the Bernie era,
of
the sport?
usually other teams can figure out what
that you can win via strategy have a
to win and you don't want structural
explicit designation of Formula 1 as the
the biggest thing is that your
billion dollars in in media rights.
make those 22 races into 22 Super Bowls,
here.
this was a COVID driven fad. I think F1
super into the sport. So there's this
really they're not in first because they
like uh this is a bullcase for Apple
So,
wanted to share with all of you. So, for
get to hear a whole bunch of the players
……（接近结尾）……
lots of great people we spoke with this
episode. But first to our partners this
season. JP Morgan Payments, trusted,
reliable payments infrastructure for
your business no matter the scale.
That's jpmorggan.com/acquired.
Verscell, the developer tools and cloud
infrastructure to build and scale fast,
secure applications on the web.
Verscell.com/acquired
to Service Now, the platform that puts
AI to work for people. That's
serviceow.com/acquired
and to stats, bringing experimentation,
feature flags, and product analytics
into one unified system for product
teams. stats.com/acquired.
As always, you can click the links in
the show notes to learn more or see all
of our sources. And special thank you as
always to Arvin Navaratnam at Worldly
Partners for his awesome, awesome
writeup on Formula 1 linked in the show
notes.
does a great job every time, but like
this was a bad
uh of research for acquired episodes.
Joshua Robinson and Jonathan Kle at the
Wall Street Journal, authors of the
formula. Truly the best business history
book on F1 out there.
here. Big thank you to Zack Brown, the
CEO at McLaren Racing. Thanks so much
for your time and prepping. to Greg
Mafay, the former CEO of Liberty Media
when they of course bought Formula 1
from CBC. Thanks, Greg, for helping me
understand the whole company. To Brandon
Reg, who oversees non-fiction and sports
at Netflix, very helpful for
understanding Netflix's strategy with
Drive to Survive and the impacts it had.
To James Gay Ree, the co-founder of
Boxtobox Films, the production company
behind Drive to Survive. to Eddie Q at
Apple, longtime Formula 1 fan, and of
course who recently bought the US
broadcast rights to Pavangami, Alex
Knight, and Jimmy Fairbanks, who are
equity investors and analysts who really
helped me understand the investor
perspective on Formula 1 Group and
Liberty Media. To Sid Trevetti, partner
at Foundation Capital and lifelong F1
fan to John Nafi, the former vice
chairman of McLaren Racing. And from
Ford, Will Ford and Mark Rushbrook, who
obviously did the big engine partnership
with Red Bull Racing. Thanks for your
time, guys.
longtime F1 fan. To our friends at
Shopify, Toby Lutka and Male Paraken.
Both total motorsports nuts. And uh Toby
actually races in another racing series,
so kind of fun to get his uh his
perspective as a driver.
to uh Andrew Craig, former chairman of
Indie Car and sports marketing
consultant. To Mike Miller, former Wall
Street Journal editor, who helped us
think through a lot of the big beats on
the story on this one, to our friend
Dustin Sedwick, who has done
partnerships and sponsorships with teams
and races all over the course of his
career. To Colin Fleming and the whole
Service Now team for bringing us to the
Paddock Club for the Las Vegas Grand
Prix for some first party research. to
Bobby Epstein, CEO of the Austin track
circuit of the Americas and promoter of
the US Grand Prix. And lastly, to our
friends at DUPA for providing us with
some amazing financial models and
spreadsheets of all the historical data
on Formula 1, just like they did for us
on Coca-Cola and Google.
Chase Carrie, uh, board member now of
Liberty and Fox, but obviously former
CEO of the F1 Group. Yep.
really uh quite the cast this time.
David, these lists are getting a little
nuts. In addition to all the people that
we aren't even saying that that helped
us, too. So, thanks if if you didn't
hear your name.
check out our other sports episodes, the
NFL, NBA, IPL, Cricket. Some good ones
in there. And uh now, if you're fired up
about F1, the first race is just a few
days away. So, if you want to see any
images from this episode, you can join
our email list, acquired.fm/email.
fm/email. We'll also share our big
takeaways from every episode, episode
summaries, uh where you're going to get
involved in helping us pick future
episodes. We we do polls and little
hints to that email list of what our
next episode will be. So, sign up at
acquired.fm/e
and come talk about it in the Slack at
acquired.fm/slack.
With that, listeners, we'll see you next
time.
Is it you? Is it you? Is it you who got
the truth now? Huh?