TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/20/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8624  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-20T15:37:35+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uB-DFpXGHqk
SHA256: 9811b008e395c9c03d69465c4ddfe3de341b646aea08a12e212d7d08681bfb25

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] morning up by about a third of 1%. It's
  [0.5] lower down by 0.5 on the S&amp;P and the
  [2022] don't want to make the mistakes of 2022.
  [50%] by 50%. Refined products absolutely
  [20%] There's a risk of 10, 15, 20% downside
  [5%] far this month and a 5% decline in
  [40%] Brent has surged over 40% since the war
  [2008] highest since 2008.
  [0.4%] Stocks are down this morning by 0.4%
  [2026] for 2026. And And Bowman over at the
  [0.5%] Equity futures negative by 0.5%
  [0.9] 0.9, and the bond market yields are
  [0.7] morning on the S&amp;P 500 negative by 0.7
  [3.91] on average we're looking at $3.91. So
  [0.4] negative by 0.4. Up next, Paul Sankey of
  [107.85] 107.85,
  [0.3%] futures on the S&amp;P negative by 0.3%
  [10%] diesel, they're going to move from 10%
  [4%] competitors Dell shares 4% as Super
  [17%] again. 17% of their capacity has been
  [31.78%] you know, energy is up 31.78%
  [18.9%] remember last year, we had an 18.9%
  [6%] You've got a 6% move in energy stocks so
  [2020] 20th of of of 2020,
  [0.7%] here by 0.7% on the Nasdaq 100 down by
  [90%] missile capabilities are now down 90%
  [110.20] on seeing. Brent crude 110.20 and up
  [9%] FedEx. Shares are rising nearly 9% in
  [15%] 15% in the pre-market. The company
  [22%] Computer. Shares are falling at 22% in
  [8000] contract high of nearly $8,000 barrel.
  [386.83] 386.83. [music]
  [109.41] ton more [music] than that. 109.41 on
  [95.43] Brent, WTI 95.43.
  [95.10] day, and on the week so far. WTI 95.10.
  [108.80] That's at 108.80, [music] coming very
  [2200] &gt;&gt; When you look at 2,200 Marines going
  [3000] Russell 3000 was down more than 20%
  [3.85] of the curve by seven basis points, 3.85
  [94.57] WTI at 94.57, Brent at 107.85.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Investors was paralyzed waiting to see
how the conflict ends.
maybe [music] this can still be a
short-lived event. Markets are repricing
the front end pretty aggressively.
weighing the inflationary [music]
impact.
exposing kind of where the fault lines
are.
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne-Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Good morning to our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday attempting to de-escalate.
gas compound. President Trump asked us
to hold off on future attacks.
do something and if I don't like it and
so we're not doing that anymore.
targeting Iran's energy as the Brent
crude money is heading towards a fifth
week of gains. It's leaving central
banks in Europe gearing up for potential
rate hikes. The ECB opening the door to
a move.
have a tremendous [music] amount of
inflationary pressures, especially if
this conflict persists, which at the
moment it is. You do see Benjamin
Netanyahu and President Trump saying
energy facilities at this point this
point are basically taken off the
targeting list. The problem is we do see
the Iranians continue to target energy
infrastructure. [music] Like this
morning, they were targeting Kuwait.
This struck out to me, Jonathan, from
the Qatari energy CEO, Saad Al Kaabi.
He's talking about the damage sustained
by the LNG facilities will take three to
five years to repair and this means that
they will be compelled to declare force
majeure for up to five years on some
long-term LNG contracts. Who does that
affect? Europe.
yesterday, that moment in the last 24
hours where the market's attention
shifted. It's been very focused on
potentially short-term transit risk and
now all of a sudden focused on the
potential for long-term production risk.
That was the wake-up call, I think, for
me and for many others, too.
moves.
The Iranians have full control.
Individuals are going to them, different
countries on a bilateral basis trying to
get their tankers through. [music] The
product is still there. We just have an
issue transporting it. Now, the product
is being damaged. [music] And how long
is that going to take to recoup? And we
are seeing physical barrels come off the
market [music] potentially for a lot
longer.
gas, those prices have almost doubled
since this war started. Brent crude up
by 50%. Refined products absolutely
surging. That's the energy move. Push it
through the bond market. At the front
end of the UK curve, we've had an almost
100 basis point move since this war
started. That's the two-year. The
10-year, the yield just moments ago the
highest since 2008.
These moves building across Europe
cascading through financial market.
comes to the BOE yesterday, when it
comes to the ECB, they are concerned
about the inflationary impact. Jim Reid
this morning from Deutsche Bank points
out at this point the Fed is the only
G10 central bank that is still, albeit
very marginally, pricing easing later
this year. [music] At one point
yesterday, markets are looking at
potentially, we are going to be in for
hikes.
Equity futures negative by 0.5%
stateside. Coming up this hour, John
Stoltzfus of Oppenheimer with stocks
looking to snap a two-day slide. We're
in talks veteran General Robert Walsh as
the US and Israel pledge to avoid
targeting energy sites and Kelsey Barrow
of JP Morgan Asset Management as
inflation concerns weigh on the global
bond market. We begin this hour with our
top story, the US and Israel pledging to
stop targeting oil and gas sites in
Iran. Bloomberg's Joumana Bercetche
joins us now from Dubai. Joumana,
welcome to the program. It's an attempt
to de-escalate. Is it working?
is an attempt to de-escalate part of the
war that is going on. I think what's
become apparent in the last 24 hours is
the Israeli air strikes on that Iranian
gas fields were one step too far, a red
line so to speak in terms of the joint
military operations between the US and
Israel. President Trump trying to
distance self from it and actually
there's really Prime Minister gave a
press conference yesterday where he said
Israel acted alone and at the US's
request they will no longer be targeting
Iranian energy infrastructure. So that
is the comment that came through.
However, that is not to say that there's
a de-intensifying
of this war that's going on. The attacks
and counterattacks have continued. It is
day 21, it's been going on for 3 weeks.
Very heavy wave of air strikes over
central Tehran this morning. The IDF
saying that they're continuing to attack
regime infrastructure, that is the
language they used. Some reports coming
through from Iranian media suggesting
that perhaps this time they've also
targeted some key personnel in the IRGC
waiting for confirmation of that. And in
response Iran continues to strike back
at Gulf states and at energy
infrastructure. For the second day in
the row we see a
Kuwaiti refinery being targeted. It is
now halted production.
Ongoing drones intercepted in Saudi
Arabia, the eastern part of the country,
the northern part of the country. And
over here where I am in Dubai more
interceptions overnight as well. Plus we
got more colors as Anne-Marie was just
saying from Qatar Energies about the
extent of the damage that was leveled at
their LNG trains. And they're talking
about 20 billion dollars of annual
revenue that's lost. It's going to take
3 to 5 years to get back to normal
again. 17% of their capacity has been
wiped out. Not just there, also remember
the two gas fields in the UAE were also
targeted too. So you have to think about
this in terms of the aggregate damage
that has been leveled over the course of
the war. Not just the flow day-to-day,
but the stock of damage and how long
it's going to take for this physical
repair to take place. At the same time,
there hasn't been a lot of progress on
the strait itself, and I will just end
with a comment from President Trump
himself. He was asked about the strait,
and he said, "The only thing is the
strait, it's very hard. You could take
two people, and they could drop little
bombs in the water, and they're holding
things up." And I think the takeaway
from all of this is as long as the
strait remains effectively shut, you're
going to continue to see this upward
pressure on oil prices, on gas prices,
and of course now you have to account
for the longer-term possibility of
physical damage in the region, too.
Jumana, always appreciate the update.
Jumana Ghazi there in Dubai leading our
coverage out of the region. Compare the
reality on the ground to what we heard
from the Israeli Prime Minister in the
last 24 hours, and those comments
helping to support markets going into
the close yesterday. One, can end a lot
faster than people think. Two,
Hormuz, but at the same time, like
Jumana just pointed out, what the
president is talking about, you can have
one of these asymmetric hits, whether
it's a drone, whether it's a mine that's
dropped into the strait, and it could
potentially be maybe some even rogue
actors, especially right now, given the
fact that it's very unclear who is in
charge, given the absolute decimation of
the top brass of the IRGC and the
regime.
We've had the energy shock. Now we're
pricing a rate shock, and doing it
really, really quickly. We priced out
the easing at the Federal Reserve. We're
pricing in rate hikes elsewhere, at the
Bank of England, at the ECB. Deutsche
Bank overnight now forecasting two hikes
from the ECB this year. This market is
pricing three. Three interest rate hikes
fully priced at the European Central
Bank. That headline crossing just
moments ago.
be potentially the year of easing, or
potentially the year of everything on
hold. More energy was going to be
……（中部抽样）……
needed, and we had a glut, and that was
backed away from it. John, what do you
project. Usually, the negative
The rate cuts we'd already seen, the
you know, energy is up 31.78%
ruled until the end of
Secretary hinting at saying potentially
I I will likely in this particular view,
that indeed there is uncertainty right
from all-time highs on the S&amp;P 500. The
started nearly 4 weeks ago.
up to the plate. We've had tremendous
0.9, and the bond market yields are
tells us the Trump administration has
coalition to secure the critical
that, General Robert Welsh of Academy
conflict is really a clash of wills and
starting to put to make it so painful
amphibious unit um that ARG/MEU
themselves into a very large joint
narrow corridor?
can see targets and take out small
this morning, flatter again led by a
the breakout in Brent image that we keep
President of the United States. They do
week. Let's get you some single names,
nearly
individuals with significant amounts of
half since the war of start of the war
realized that it's not just that we
the seaborne trade in oil and this is
the real market that is pricing the real
necessarily use so we don't have a use
now is pricing in really what is going
looking at an Atlantic basin that is
of that physical asset. Do you think
months out, the Brent premium, and we
the product markets, for instance. So,
globe.
bid to investigate Fed Chair Jay Powell.
on the program, the Iran war of feeding
ECB is pricing in [music] three hikes or
now. But the differential [music]
Asset Management writing technical
market more broadly, what I'm doing is
cut versus the BOE and the ECB where
hikes so far at the ECB. The value
continues to go up, here's what we think
the day. And what you saw with the move
the in the Fed's orbit, we were seeing a
the globe. The timing was was great,
in very snug valuations, not consistent
but they think if this conflict
Good morning. Good morning for our
basically stuck, [music] and now we have
what's going on, saying energy
That changes the conversation. And then
not going to back down.
context of Russia's invasion of Ukraine
stocks extended declines as crude
goes to United States still trading
about the war in Ukraine and the
not all of it would just go illegally to
consider where should interest rates be?
now. What would be a giant mistake
and it starts to hit demand production?
going to be difficult for the American
really debilitating. If it it stays
of weeks ago we were pricing hikes
German Central Bank president out this
elsewhere this morning worldwide with
its units. Brent has surged more than
heading into the weekend and heading
that's not happening.
concerns floating plans to lift
options that the administration decided
of allies for not meeting his demand of
the impression that he got a phone call
a phone call from the Oval.
this, about whether or not there are
looking to or is preparing for an event
So, that request in what, 200 billion?
talking about the Pentagon asking for
consumers in the short term, but I I
opposed to the oil price itself. And
inflation impact of this because
negative by 0.4. Up next, Paul Sankey of
much bigger. So, we take stock of what
is the physical market gets so much
Danny.
co-founder have uh uh declined to
is nuts every time I hear about it. All
stubborn and incompetent, I think it's
She's saying, "We're going to appeal
session briefly, up on the week big
attacks. But you just quoted me saying
We've highlighted today as a very big
Congress and sending more hardware to a
you mentioned, it's all about Asian
Saudis and Emiratis are squarely backing
change here might come in November when
you know, Chris Wright being a
finances because as you know, the scale
to be 50 to to 100 million barrels of of
be we're not bombing, we declare
face.
the North Sea when the UK represents
uninvestable. And you've got to put in
you more and I think some of that is
Yahara.
for the industry. [music]
energy still elevated but down on the
us now for more. Terry good morning.
would have been felt burned
they might actually hike in the next
don't have just the impulse from the
assets, nominal paying coupon assets
long bond. And the third reason is the
think value has opened up across the
not so much uh where on the curve, you
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
spiraling out of control.
declare force majeure for up to 5 years
being talked about enough, I don't
There's going to be a number of packages
of measures this administration, and
Omar, is that conservative, sensible, or
know, placing in a place where you are
clients, you know, started to just, you
that's probably the right approach, you
know, what the potential implication of
inflation hit is basically what is
inflationary up front, but this is going
implications of, you know, gas prices
the more difficult will that be.
opening bell about an hour and 20
in violation of US export controls.
for options to
the month by something like 50. If you
there's a lot of weight behind that name
Karoui, the multi-asset credit
are underperforming. The broadly
supply shock. We had COVID, we had the
Chancellor asked about this in the news
specifically, as opposed to downside
financial conditions?
but again, if you go back to '21, '22,
explains some of the pressure that
are available to investors. That
I mentioned, if you look at, you know,
congratulations, sir. It's good to see
electricity, that's going to be reduced.
dovish? Cuz her next line, of course,
declines here on the S&amp;P 500. In the
Starting to have that hit at the long
is a bear flattener. Right now, in the
changing and putting serial dummy serial
their $33 billion food business. We've
long end. It felt like we were really
stagflation shock? What would you call
they do? They actually raised their real
Fed is in jeopardy?
circumspect. Uh I mean, look, I I'm a
happening on the southern border and
what the Fed did with 530 basis points
picked up now for the cycle. The
without any labor force growth
developments in the Middle East, but do
of this rate-cutting cycle in any event,
the jobs report was weak. Speaking to
……（接近结尾）……
slammed because we're repricing rates.
There's some speculation also that some
gold holders aren't getting the oil
revenue they were getting and they need
to monetize the holdings. There's
reasons for gold to be down and they're
not good reasons.
at the Vix. The Vix was almost 20 before
the war. It's in the mid-20s now. It's
up, but if this was if this was really a
a panic if this was disorderly in the
market and it is not, you would see
something like high yield spreads, which
are a prediction of
is this going to hit the economy in a
way that people can't make their loan
payments and the the the high yield
spread market saying is not a little but
but nothing to Now, maybe that means
that there's just too much complacency,
but it's not just equities. We're seeing
it in a number of other places.
spend some time on this. Equities have
been well behaved.
credit, high yield, and in equities.
necessarily concerning, but interesting
that you've had such a great repricing
in energy. Now, you've had it in rates,
but you haven't really had it in the
assets that are most sensitive to a
repricing of growth. I'm trying to work
out why.
what's what's what has changed is the
and I'm looking at the US market, the
expectation of two Fed cuts has been
taken off of off of the table. We can
debate whether that's whether that's
properly calibrated.
that move on the short end of the curve,
the long end of the curve has not has
been reasonably orderly against that.
It's moved about half of that amount on
the on the 10-year bond yield. So, I I
don't think the yield curve is doing
anything that crazy. Oil Of course, oil
prices are going to be disrupted.
However, if you look at the oil curve,
where does the market think oil is going
to be at the end of the year? 3 months,
6 months, 12 months, 20 4 months. It's
heavily backwardized. They meaning this
is the market's pricing this as a
near-term shock, which is going to
relatively quickly, but not not
immediately, resolve itself. And it what
equities are going to ask what the
equity market should be asking is if I'm
looking back at this event at the end of
the year
is this a is this a if if this is a it
is a headache then are we or is this a
footnote and and this will uh proven to
be a buying opportunity. The market
right now is is not panicking on this
thing.
where prices are in terms of
backwardation for oil, but we don't know
yet if this is going to be prolonged.
The Saudi Arabia's talking about $180.
You have Governor Waller talking about
this is going to creep into core. At
some point, isn't this going to hit
balance sheets?
Listen, we we always don't know. I mean,
we you know, if you if we roll back the
clock at you know, to uh let's say, you
know,
in the middle of of um of February, we
were asked with the question that we
were we were I was here about 5 weeks
ago. We're asking, what does AI do? Is
it going to demolish the software
sector? Are we going to have employment
ever again? What's going to happen? And
the answer is
we don't know. I I mean, and that's what
equity markets try to do. They try to,
you know, put some type of a prediction.
And what I'm saying is if the equity
markets
have a voice right now, they're saying
what it feels like. Equity markets are
viewing this as Trump always chickens
out and this
that what the equity markets are saying
is is that this will not metastasize
into something which is larger. They're
not saying that that Trump is going to
cut and run. What they're saying is is
that worst case scenarios of us getting
mired there and the straits being closed
and oil staying at, you know, hitting
180 and staying there, that the
likelihood of that happening is is
see you. It's calm. There's no panic in
the equity market. That's a good thing.
It could be worse.
don't have a bias either way. It's good
to see [music] you. I'm happy to see
you. That's my bias.
York City. Have a wonderful [music]
weekend. From New York City, this was
Bloomberg Surveillance.