TITLE: Trump, Xi to Meet in Beijing on May 14–15 | The China Show 3/26/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5578  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-26T05:40:45+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JOU5iy56FjY
SHA256: 35d2893ca25eddd7689c3d2301e2469deb79939433bd3a2e6f56ec900de50edd

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [23%] after that plunge of record 23% the back
  [20%] next year's growth to get about 20% at
  [1%] 1%. Oil is still a little bit elevated
  [1996] time since 1996.
  [10%] nearly 10% so far in the session early
  [2025] fullear net loss for 2025 grew to almost
  [1.1] need to know today and that's 1.1
  [12%] go. 12% losses uh for Quai right now.
  [13%] basically have seen about 13% gains
  [30%] over two days to around 30%. So, lots of
  [18%] Uh on top of the 18% increase in 2014.
  [25%] other 25% from mainland Southbound
  [2026] market only until mid 2026. The moves
  [2028] &gt;&gt; and by 2028 we want to achieve you know
  [14%] up 14% in both Hong Kong, the US
  [4500] pressure. So around that 4500 an ounce
  [1.2%] there down 1.2%. Uh let's also take a
  [2.0] administration version 2.0 Now
  [49000] Now Canada welcoming in 49,000 uh
  [2018] war in 2018 a movement to diversify
  [1.315%] curve, uh reaching 1.315% for the first
  [14.5] said 11 billion to 14.5 billion in
  [40%] series made up 40% of its sales last
  [700%] 700% growth in the Americas after just
  [2027] 300 by 2027.
  [7.7] analyst estimate. The net income was 7.7
  [22%] 22% rather from a year earlier. City is
  [3%] 2 to 3%.
  [1.5%] Uh the inflation uh is about 1.5%.
  [26%] stock market ride rose by about 26%.
  [2014] Uh on top of the 18% increase in 2014.
  [35%] are the major players about about 35% of
  [80%] uh 80% increase compared to the year
  [5.4%] growth rate of 5.4% 4%
  [4%] growth rate of 5.4% 4%
  [13000] China's per capita GDP exceeded$13,000
  [1.4] in 1.4 four billion people and the
  [8.5] they're set to release around 8.5
  [3.4] $3.4 billion. So, uh they have begun
  [11.6%] totaling 11.6% of common shares

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong, you're watching the
China Show. I'm Yvan Man with Annabelle
Jewelers. We're counting down to the
open of markets in greater China. And
our top stories this morning, Asian
stocks are slipping. That's as the US
insists peace talks are continuing with
Iran, even as Thrron publicly rejects
Washington's outreach and sets its own
conditions to end the war. The White
House says President Trump's meeting
with Xiinping will happen in the middle
of May. The Iran war adding to an
already long list of issues for the
leaders to discuss and delivery giant
Muan set to report earnings amid
concerns over industry competition.
PopMart also also in focus. That's after
shares fell the most on record due to
weak sales of its non Laboo toys.
Yeah. You know, we we try to start the
show with what really is going on. And I
think we're still having these lingering
questions on just where we are in this
whole Iran situation when it comes to,
you know, progress on talks, how
likelihood we're going to get a deal.
But I think markets at least for now
have calmed down a bit, which is a good
thing to to say to see really after what
has been a volatile 3 weeks or so. So we
have that and then it gives us time to
focus on earnings really in China too.
need to know today and that's 1.1
trillion and that is the market cap of
the amount of companies that are
reporting today. It's just I mean
there's a lot we've got muan for
instance we just said there in the
headlines but there's there's seen
there's a lot of the banks that are
going to be giving out their figures as
well. So lots of questions around the
health of the Chinese economy and
exactly how as well any sort of signals
we get on how they're withstanding
what's happening in Iran. Yeah, that and
then there's the whole consumption
theme, right? I'm talking, you know,
when you take a look at Mtoan, uh the
very interesting sort of column that
came out uh in state media from
regulators and basically it's time to
end the price war when it comes to food
delivery platforms and that's something
going to be a key thing to watch here
today.
up 14% in both Hong Kong, the US
overnight on that story. But Trumpi as
well, I mean, this is another one that's
just come into into the spotlight
because we had that that White House
conference, of course, and and just
giving us the the the new date
essentially for when it's going to be
taking place.
we'll see. Does that mean, you know, we
might still have a couple more weeks of
uh questions about where the Iran
situation is? Is that how long President
Trump thinks that, you know, he needs to
kind of end and exit this war? That
certainly is going to be key things to
watch here right now.
because uh Carolyn Levit did actually
sidestep a question on whether the
summit really means that we're going to
get an end to the war by then. But
President Trump has actually just told
his aid he thinks that the Iran war is
in its final stages. That's according to
reporting from the Wall Street Journal.
Uh let's take a look at the market
action off the back of that because
really as you said we have seen that
that compression of of volatility but
but certainly we have seen lots of
fluctuations really across the course of
the week and the big question is really
how exactly are the negotiations going
given you're getting very mixed messages
as we said from Washington but also from
Tyran. So you can see stocks here are
steading brand crude just advancing a
little bit. Uh again we've seen it gains
and losses throughout the week here.
Gold futures as well slightly under
pressure. So around that 4500 an ounce
level stocks wise as well. Let's take a
look here because uh if there's going to
be a key sector to watch today, it is
actually the tech one given what you saw
in the US overnight. But just
essentially the the headline here, not
to get into the details, but we did have
a a story out from Google researchers
talking about new compression
techniques. It's all about doing more
with less. Does that mean mean lesser
lesser demand essentially for memory?
Does it hit the names like like uh SKH
Highix, Samsung, you can see the Cosby
there down 1.2%. Uh let's also take a
look at the FX story. Again, we've seen
really mixed moves to the dollar here.
Steady so far in early trading and then
also taking a look at Chinese equities
ahead of the open, but as we said, big
focus on those earnings in the session
today.
drifting based on just the Iran
situation. But I think when you take a
look at what's in store, I mean, pot as
you mentioned that tumbled out we saw.
We'll see how these other consumption
names are, but likely MTON could be a
pretty ugly sort of set of earnings here
today. So, uh, that's one thing to watch
here, but then again, you also have the
regulators and what they've been saying
that certainly has popped up the shares
of late. President Trump now saying
talks with Iran are ongoing and that's
despite what we've heard from Iran,
right? Tyrron publicly rejecting the US
overtures and issuing fresh conditions
to end the conflict.
eight wars. People sort of forget. And
we're winning another one. I tell you,
we're winning so big. Nobody's ever seen
anything like we're doing in the Middle
East with Iran. And they are
negotiating, by the way. And they want
to make a deal so badly, but they're
afraid to say it because they figure
they'll be killed by their own people.
They're also afraid they'll be killed by
us.
joins us now. Uh so when it comes to
what we're hearing from the the US side
and the Iran side, how far apart are the
two in terms of where we are in talks
and negotiations,
spectrum where uh Trump is insisting
that talks are going great, there's
multiple points of agreement, this is
going to be a speedy end to this war,
whereas you have Iran saying absolutely
not. Uh so we you know you have both
sides who have at least started to put
out sort of their visions for what they
what they want. you know, this 15-point
plan yesterday from the US. Uh, the
White House has quibbled a little bit
with some of the details there, but um,
you know, that at least has acknowledged
that that has existed and they've put
that out um to the Iranians. Iran also
put out its own plan saying that it
wants to continue to have authority over
the straight of war moves. It needs all
these attacks to stop. Um, so you at
least kind of see a baseline scenario,
but we are a long ways away from having
some sort of agreement that both sides
could could come to the table with. We
also don't have any clarity on are there
actual back channel talks happening? you
know, are are the the the mediators um
you know, in Oman and and Pakistan and
elsewhere, you know, kind of
facilitating some of these conversations
or is this just sort of a lot of public
posturing on social media without a lot
of actual substantive discussion?
think as well, there's that pressure of
is the US looking to put boots on the
ground and and what do we know on troop
movements and is that fanning the
situation or is it is it uh just sort of
I guess for the cause? Yeah,
right? Trump can can have his cake and
eat it too, right? He can talk about
peace, but also in the background be
moving thousands of troops to the to the
region. And these are troops that are
not going to arrive tomorrow. Some of
them will take a couple weeks. Um
signaling that the US at least thinks
that there's a possibility that um uh
that that they're going to need them at
some point in the in the coming weeks.
You know, we've seen this, you know,
over the past several months between
Venezuela and now uh with Iran. Every
time they have move made major movements
of troops and and assets to a region,
they have ended up deploying those.
joining us and bringing us up to speed
……（中部抽样）……
there. That was our politics editor,
Forum is underway. So Steve, yeah, I
little bit more time of course to wind
I I spoke with the former US commerce
guaranteed to be a lasting truth. So,
or even on the agenda between the two
this is for the world we all expecting
administration in the last year since
think the think tanks be yeah to ensure
be in the next five years all this new
current crisis and more more resilient.
to get the number three leader in China
forum for Asia but coming up after the
break. We're at Boow and this is
getting out of the Chinese leaders. You
what has happened over the last four
will be no impact in China. Uh but I
would have been quite different and
needed to manage those things and that's
climate change and decarbonization.
trucks as well. Uh starting pretty much
It's it's not only about gasoline it's
our domestic industries. The Chinese are
accelerate electrification of of
IC by electric car. So there's a for
Whereas this could potentially be quite
volumes are still relatively small but
charm offensive by leaders here uh
agreement there. But is the charm
all these leaders that's EU that's
when I look at what companies are doing
mus is blocked or because uh uh the
always.
back as well as what the dollar yen's
highest level we've seen since 1996.
aside here this morning on the price
there's a couple of different themes
to drive a lot of the the sentiment
talking a bit more about food delivery
you go. Um, so we can kind of put push
a look at some of these consumption
the consumption and tech space as well.
that certainly is going to be a key
that we came through. BIC, Jang Su,
hurting uh the profitability side of
war. And you know, they're saying the
and really hurting the restaurant sector
seep through once again. you see the
the rhetoric here that certainly is a
first time we've heard overures
going but you're taking these losses
just tell us exactly uh is Beijing
mentioned restaurant, but, you know, we
it of you know the excessive competition
like oh you know I've got so much more
go into 618 and then um you know and
are all talking about AI and it's about
know competition is still intact right
after what was a record selloff
tracking this right now. Tell us more
Laboos, it made up uh the the Monster
next year's growth to get about 20% at
think?
new IPs because these IP characters they
because it's been piloting a new dessert
could be mini fridges, um, kettles.
billion that marks an improvement from
billion yuan. That's up from 20 or up
listings. Speaking exclusively at
uh and it will be translated uh into
looking for stability and and you know
reemerging as a primary destination for
example, as you know, last year our
been quite international and
supply of quality issuers quality
proposition is good. I think we do not
also leased a uh a mining company from
then what is it going to be to really
to Hong Kong. He talked about schooling
Kong's the chairman winning the top
well represented across the list because
sounds like a great night in Hong Kong.
the Czech automaker SCOD will exit the
are now facing the longest wait times on
the tech giants to pay $6 million to the
in that LA court on the 9th day of
category as big tobacco and opioid
these tech companies, but the
the platform is created.
technology, uh is raising some doubts.
and a half percent drop there. Session
results have come through. Uh certainly
close exactly are negotiators getting to
one of the key themes today. The other
let's take a look as well what's
So it's that continuing case. We're
normal really that we've been hovering
the Middle East with Iran. And they are
because it seems like Tyrron and
deadline expires, the one that President
have been calling the shots here.
who would not accept a condition in
struck 70 targets around the region,
diplomatic channels, but at the same
posturing and you typically when when
Iranians. One other thing to watch is
perhaps thinking about getting troops
allows the US for their land to be used
be an escalatory point because Iran have
as well. We'll be joined by Bernard
committee chairman and China's number
Hormuz remains largely closed to
Bernard Schultter ship management.
Homos. uh one of our vessels is there uh
about these sort of non-aggressive, uh,
he has to take the final call to ensure
then or projections around how long the
geopolitical tensions and conflicts puts
ceasefire? Do you think that will be
operators and ship managers uh our whole
conflicts such as this there's no uh
but to that point, what sort of uh
keep in touch with our PNI club. We keep
vessel alongside to ensure all this is
very important to ensure their safety.
you've laid out?
the brunt of the receiving end. So we
we're actually going to have more from
the Boa Forum in Hainan when NPC
NBC standing committee chairman Ja Gi is
multilateralism.
respect and trust.
cultural diversity, champion the common
economy and improve people's livelihoods
and surpassed
plan for economic and social
and will make solid progress in
in 1.4 four billion people and the
consumption in telecommunications,
over the world are welcome to commit to
wants to see here or what they're really
non-inference
reported earlier uh as well uh from the
Philippines as well about, you know,
of case that's building for a near-term
Goldman Sachs, says the accumulation of
happen a lot in these instruments
The fund says it will fulfill 43% of the
earnings of 70 cents a share missed the
infrastructure investment firms in the
looking at your assets and capital
put $22 billion of equity to work. I've
in particular. You've got the energy
we're building close to $20 billion
security conversation changed uh some of
capital to go and invest into
in question and then you realize just
companies and hyperscalers all the time
for data center space,
see a breadth of the market. We like to
the the the type of assets in the range
them for a fair price sometimes that's a
rather do that than lean into one sector
broad exposure to energy. I talk to
you've got to watch it week by week. So,
and co-founder at Stone Peak. really
restructuring plan we are seeing that
CEO of Bow Jun, which runs Gap Stores in
……（接近结尾）……
the future other brands. Yeah.
closed the Hong Kong gap uh in the
Heisen building uh during the a few
years ago. But talk about store
expansion plans for for Gap China now.
What what what are they going to look
like?
have a plan to open 50 more stores.
know, in tier one to tier three uh
cities and we are back. We're back in
Hong Kong. Are you? Yeah, very soon.
Yeah.
year?
very good. So, I
I. So,
on the the brand strategy because you're
going back to that localization story
and and this this idea around the the
Yun Yunyang brand. Yeah.
British sports apparel brand gap does
that look the same or do you really
differentiate according to to the the
specific one you're working with?
they're all the same. But talking about
the you know the the the the individual
brands are very different from each
other. American brands, British brands,
you know sports and apparel all
different. So you know all the uh the
brand management team will be separate.
They will have a separate strategy. What
we are going to do support them with
money, financial resources, I technology
we are good at and also the e-commerce
experience. Do you emphasize the brand
origins at all or do you downplay that?
Like do you want to say that this is an
American brand or do you want to say
this is the British uh you know rain
boots or whatever? How does that work?
to speak that loud cuz you know
consumers are smart. They know what is
what. Yeah.
you for joining us and as we said
congratulations on those results and
looking forward to having Gap back in
Hong Kong. That is
Vincent, thank you so much for joining
us.
chairman, and CEO of Bjun. And a
reminder, of course, of our new online
feature, that's the Bloomberg video hub.
Uh subscribers can explore live
streaming, news, and interviews. All of
our Bloomberg TV shows, documentaries,
reporter analysis, and more. So, do
check it out at bloomberg.com/videos.
More ahead. This is Bloomberg.
In some corporate news this morning, the
Czech automaker SCOD is going to be
exiting the Chinese market this year.
That's after a prolonged sales slump.
The Volkswagen owned car maker says its
models will be available in the world's
biggest auto market only until mid 2026.
The moves being driven by China's rapid
shift to locally made EVs. Airbus has
won an order from China Eastern Airlines
forund 101 A320 Neo aircraft. That's in
a deal valued at nearly $16 billion. The
order extends the plane makaker's
dominance in the world's second largest
aviation market. The jets are going to
be delivered in batches between 2028 and
2032. Since July 2022, major Chinese
airlines have ordered or committed to a
combined 554 Airbus aircraft, including
this latest deal. Yep. Take a look when
it comes to market movers here this
morning. In terms of the top losers on
the HSI, these are the ones here. The
damage report looking like this. Quai is
leaning the board. We're down still some
13%. I think those are still those
session lows there. Uh against these
earnings, which were actually in line
with estimates, but there has been
concerns about the the rise in AI
investment and the like for the company.
The stock now uh it's down to about $46.
Popart, wow, we're 7% lower here after
what was already a record drop of 23%
yesterday on the back of their earnings.
Are they relying too much on Laboos uh
for this sort of growth? That certainly
is the question. Uh we have seen a wave
of price targets being slashed from the
sell side here this morning on PopMart
as well. I think Deutsche actually uh
changed the recommendation uh as well.
So certainly there's a lot at hand.
Healthcare also in focus on this
long-term care insurance plan as well.
Seeing a mixed picture there, but you
are seeing the likes of Nanjing Shing J
Department up some 10%. Got the Indian
markets coming up here and opening up.
We're seeing futures slight to the
downside here this morning with Goldman
though downgrading Indian stocks to
market weight this morning. That's it
for us here on the China show.