TITLE: Fears of Widening Iran War Grow | The China Show 3/30/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5513  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-30T05:40:46+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3UW5EQ81WGM
SHA256: 978892c380d6736972b91a22fd26cc3e265656c2a41ed0c4fde314cca3d31805

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [5%] have the nicke off 5%. Cosby is up three
  [1%] 1%. This is the China show.
  [2026] or not you see that translating to 2026.
  [2030] 2030.
  [4%] now down 9.4% 4% from that recent peak.
  [2025] achieved in 2025.
  [2027] by 2027. And with just one year away
  [3%] down close to 3%. Of course, we'll track
  [2%] Tech Mao Group down some 2%. CL uh
  [10%] here. Tan aluminum also up some 10%
  [7%] consider Chalco is up 7% and that takes
  [2022] 2022. In fact, just a little bit more.
  [38%] that we saw 38% in the fourth quarter.
  [2020] uh back in 2020. Uh just underscores how
  [2023] what we have seen back in 2023 when the
  [35000] about 35,000 uh sorry, 3,500 US troops
  [3500] about 35,000 uh sorry, 3,500 US troops
  [9%] ADRs were down some 9%. And so we'll see
  [9.4%] now down 9.4% 4% from that recent peak.
  [4500] that being said, the CSI 300 at 4,500 is
  [4.6%] continuing uh down by 4.6%. We got the
  [25000] below that 25,000 level for the hang.
  [2024] 2024 also we deliver very strong topline
  [11.9] R&amp;B 11.9 billion and one thing I would
  [2029] pipeline but starting from 2029 or 2030
  [2035] 2035.
  [22.8] reported net income for 2025 of 22.8
  [23.8] billion. That's compared with a 23.8 8
  [0.7%] assets, says net income rose 0.7% last
  [53.3] year to 53.3 billion. profit ads. China
  [4000] delivered more than 4,000 units of its
  [550000] delivering 550,000
  [34%] cars in 2026 up 34% from last year.
  [40%] moves remains shut. They're putting 40%
  [30%] 30% of Gulf refinery capacity has been
  [17%] to repair and they knocked out 17% of
  [15%] to 15% of the world total uh through the
  [500000] 500,000 troops into the country and they
  [93%] remmbb. That's up 93%
  [1.3] if we hit 1.3 billion remb in sales for

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong, you're watching the
China Show. I'm Y Ivon Man with David
and Glass.
markets in greater China. Let's get your
top stories today. Stocks across the
Asia-Pacific down and down by a lot. Uh
oil jumping as the Iran uh Iran war
enters a fifth week with rising risks of
escalation. Global equities are set for
their worst month in four years with a
key benchmark nearing a correction.
President Trump claims negotiations with
Tyrron are ongoing even as Iran's
proxies attack US allies and thousands
more American troops head to the region.
for China's EV industry after delivering
its third straight quarter of
disappointing earnings.
speak to two key players in the Chinese
biotech sector. Stay tuned for our
interviews with executives from
Innovative Biologics and Hua Medicine.
Well, Dave, we came out this weekend
with just more news of signs of
deescalation along with some of the
diplomacy that's underway. But it seems
like markets right now are really
focused more on this conflict really
widening now that the Houthies are
really entered into this Iran conflict.
to the other choke point which has
managed to offset some of the the issues
right now and on logistics and I think
the the simply the uh the oil price are
now reflecting that 115 116 and then you
also have on top of that other
components of the aluminum of the you
know commodity complex aluminum is also
a very good example uh so markets are
selling off and I think for once uh we
we talked about BYD right for once the
earning story won't be an offset to the
challenges on risk assets from the macro
side of things because the earnings is
also quite disappointing when you look
at Chinese markets
know getting March and April data right
February data so far has been quite
stale given the fact that it hasn't
reflected what this Iran conflict might
have on economies here once we start to
get some of that data points come
through
on you know basically the data earnings
as well from CEOs you know that might
start to see where we start to really
focus not just on the inflation shocks,
but really now maybe the growth risks
moving forward to from this whole
conflict,
approaching calendar month end and the
first few days of the calendar month of
April. And I think that's really when
you're going to get a lot of these uh
PMIs coming through, which would be the
first indication, right? See, and I
suspect my my suspicion is some of the
estimates out there haven't quite
reflected yet uh some of the pain that
will likely show up in these numbers.
And hopefully I'm wrong when it comes to
that, of course. But when when you look
at markets for example, it it doesn't
really take a lot to stretch uh you know
that that that that that tangent between
where you are as far as the war goes and
really the pain these economies are
feeling at this point uh in time. In
fact, you know, just on the very note,
right, you have oil prices right now 117
right now in Grant. We're back above 100
on West Texas. Uh we talked about uh the
the equity markets on track for the
worst month going back to about mid of
2022. In fact, just a little bit more.
We have two two days left that we could
actually take out that threshold and
would be in that case and hopefully I'm
I'm wrong here. The worst month for
global equities since the pandemic hit
uh back in 2020. Uh just underscores how
unprepared markets were for this. Uh and
I think further on as well, flip the
page please. When you look at currency
markets, intervention risk now with you
know 160 on dollar yen, uh that's a
little bit stronger right now as far as
the Japanese currency is concerned.
following comments early on which we'll
get to in a moment. Equity markets you
have the nicke off 5%. Cosby is up three
down three or four. Taiwan is coming
online and when Hong Kong comes online
do expect it to reflect not just this
but also the BYD effect because that
stock is likely going to take a mass a
massive hit today. Coming up on your
screens A50 futures and of course you
have aluminum and also Shanghai. We're
also focusing on these two specifically
in the Chinese mainland exchange. Yeah,
some of these Middle East plants uh were
hit by the aluminum ones. So certainly
that's one thing to watch here. That's
why you are seeing that spike up in
aluminum prices here this morning. But
let's get to the latest here when it
comes to the the Iran war and and bring
in our politics editor Laura Davidson.
Also here is our Asia oil trading
reporter Ron Neil joining us from
Singapore. Laura, I'll start with you.
The Houthi is entering to this war. How
much complexity does this add now to the
whole conflict?
having other actors enter the frey. Um,
you know, it's just another uh, you
know, uh, card that Iran can play to
have more leverage, to have additional,
uh, locations to fire missiles. Um, but
also for all of those Gulf allies that
were, you know, thinking about last
week, do they get in, do they not? What
is their role in here directly? That
just adds that much more pressure as
there's that, you know, much more risk
for them uh, going forward. So, that
adds a lot of complexity here. Uh, plus
we also uh, you know, are are we heard
uh, the Trump was rather quiet over the
weekend, but we've heard a lot from him
uh, just today. He's uh you know just
spoke with reporters on the the plane
headed said that there was uh you know
that that Iran has given in to many of
the demands uh that the US has put out
in their 15-point plan. Really unclear
what he means there. Um he didn't
specify what that was all about. Uh but
just uh you know uh a couple hours
before he gave an interview interview to
the Financial Times where he said uh
that he wanted to take um Iranian oil.
So again, we continue to hear mixed
messages from the president about
whether a peace deal is imminent or uh
you know could there potentially be some
large scale ground operation, you know,
in which he said that US troops would be
on Card Island for a long time.
the diplomacy front whether that's
between the US and Iran and whether the
Iranians have responded to some of the
claims from the US president and also
separately uh these talks that Pakistan
wants to broker between all parties
involved here.
weekend not between the US and and Iran
but with intermediaries in Pakistan. So
you had Pakistani officials um as well
as Egypt and Turkey who were also there.
They have kind of played that main um
role there trying to uh to sort of
bridge the gap. Um you know it still is
not clear that there are any direct
talks happening between Iran and and uh
and the US. Although Trump just you know
as a couple minutes ago said that there
were both direct and indirect talks.
Iranians have continued to deny that. Um
and and as we've seen sort of you know
all the these different signs you know
Trump continues to push a peace deal at
least publicly but um privately there
are lots of conversations about a ramp
up of US military efforts
aluminum has now been pulled into this.
Some of the assets in the Middle East
have been hit. What do we know about
that?
another um you know kind of commodity
that's that's going to be you know up I
think almost 5% uh is what we saw most
recently. Um this is just adds to sort
of what has been a really really bad
case scenario for the economic outlook.
I'll note, you know, the White House
kind of gave, we're now in the fifth
week of this war. They said in four to
six weeks is when Americans will start
feeling the economic impact of that war.
We're now in that time period. We're
seeing, you know, as as a tax ramp up
that um you know, things are headed in
the wrong direction from an economic
stability perspective.
……（中部抽样）……
you know, when it comes to oil, that
some of these Gulf nations have done is
into the Red Sea. I mean that has
alternative routes right will oil
uh group and we're looking at worst case
here. Um, how are energy markets
blocked off due to the ongoing Middle
loadings from the Middle East, that was
what we have seen back in 2023 when the
would say our last um only open outlet
could go out to as high as $200 a
anticipatory by the market. It's just
putting all these in mind, uh markets
clear indication of that happening
arrived in the region over the weekend.
intermediaries that would suggest that
when it comes to obesity drugs as well.
breaking below that 200 day moving
on Friday as well. Xiaomi is also in
when you look at the earnings story, and
like a bank and China Eastern Airlines
now down 9.4% 4% from that recent peak.
of the weekend. What do we do? you wait
peace talks and the market rallied. This
pain is getting priced into the equities
Do you think that positioning is some
lot of sense because central banks for
has gone too far here. maybe you want to
sitting on the fence so far worried
pack stocks we'll be tracking of course
game uh as part of the sort of targets
uh more in demand. But I think that you
talking. Chico shares already up some 5%
knockout stage. Uh perhaps that's why
engulfed markets pretty much the entire
August on the CSI 300. Right. But all
might also compound some of the downward
about economists already pricing out the
all things EVs. BYD, there you go. Down
future which is increasingly bleak by
It seems like markets are really focused
at how onore equities are doing, you
speaking insulated, they have cheap
pretty indiscriminate here right now.
And we're talking about a remn that's
some ways because now it's not just
But take a look at the tech space. It is
after there have been some reports of
disappointment when it comes to the
we're still down about 1% here but yes
an example right folks were talking
some competition. Let's borrow that word
other verticals. Joining us now
achieved in 2025.
billion and the product revenue reached
development in terms of the global
three leading assets are more than US
and Ro. So definitely innovation
achieved the last year was more than 20
for the mat national players. We also
perhaps lower prices and are you
treatment is extremely underpenetrated
comes to weight loss drugs, right? when
JLP1 brands they lower their price get
more than 10 times of the growth
overall market size is definitely there.
sustain growth momentum but you can see
you know, we reiterate our target of
become a global competitive biioarma by
moving into global phase three by 2030.
by 2030 and also uh you know if you're
thank you so much Rachel Yo there CFO of
really we've s actually seen the stock
comes to the competition. Let's bring in
coming into 2026. Uh we're going to see
we we led with there, you know, the
ease up.
still ongoing but we're already seeing
down for us. The earnings call, of
this morning. ProChina's earnings fell
they contend with government mandates to
intellectual property beyond toys. The
19th. Le Jun had already set a goal of
they're missing estimates on the bottom
consider Chalco is up 7% and that takes
least think about uh verbal intervention
and aluminum prices are surging some 4%
Hormuz uh to the gate of tears uh and
think McCrory's out with that price
measure. Uh still looking relatively
still seeing diplomatic efforts that
But this is what the rest of Asia is
oil up to $200 here if the straight
bit more of the Japanese talk about it
since this war began. Uh Brent crude as
EM you're right I mean it's really the
pointing out too that the Houthis have
pipeline east to west which has now
you have all these tankers lining up
into the Asia Pacific. So that obviously
party involved in what's going on in the
watch right so they're talking about uh
that you have to add to the oil price
of Michigan. Professor, good morning
price of petroleum, you're look you're
from liberation day where the president
that they're not at this moment prepared
do. uh that uh then the Houthies might
whether it's, you know, geopolitical
will force the White House to back down.
done to the Rasa
world has ever experienced.
two sides in in how they envisionage an
attacks are over and they're saying they
So, how does this end?
political change is you know doesn't
see some gray in my hair here. I lived
way in which uh a land invasion of Iran
more about earnings away from the
remmbb. That's up 93%
get straight to this. Um when do you
marketed in China which has been
January 1, 2025. Uh we're now up to
combination actually shows that the
and if you are able to market here in
taking a page off of Elon Musk, for
sense of our confidence level of how
this drug and how to commercialize your
130 million in China. And a lot of the
gone generic in China and India as of
in China of the combination of our drug
and the reduced price doesn't at the end
Kong which I guess you're in the very
waiting for that to be formally approved
maximum tolerated dose to increase the
of the year and on the back of that data
collaborations?
very welcomed re uh input from Global
different from what you're seeing in the
latter part. I mean, we're about to wrap
dollars a barrel over the pre-war price.
amazing. The US economy has been very
certainly does complicate things a bit
here this morning as well Dave
dollar. And you know we are moving into
all of March so far. the estimates so
perfect timing to really hold a
discussions here. What are the panels?
event which is going to be um very
instinct was to think that this was
central banks are telling you um they
would not want to be a central banker
support uh is going to come from fiscal
inner trades at this point and where do
right optimal level of yields, I've been
dollar here? It seems like when you take
negative for Asia um a pretty big
argument uh to go back and look at what
is almost a very challenging exercise,
struck by I don't want to call it
commodity prices. We had some upside
and I think the risk to bond yields uh
fight off uh involution. Do you finally
I' I'd look at it as a positive, but I
having your macro conference here in in
……（接近结尾）……
the Korean stock market, is suffering
severely from the fallout of this war.
And NPS's returns are consequently being
significantly impacted,
right? Domestic equities performed
strongly last year and seemed to lead
returns which led you to reduce overseas
equities. So are you shifting in a
different direction this year?
market performed exceptionally well
compared to other global markets. just
looking at the National Pension Service
alone, our return on domestic stocks
exceeded 80%.
Yes, but since it was difficult to
predict whether this trend would
continue this year, we made a slight
adjustment at the end of January to
maintain that momentum. However, we are
keeping the overall strategy intact. We
plan to monitor the situation for a few
more months and then decide at that time
whether changes to our asset allocation
and portfolio are truly necessary.
Should NPS play a bigger role in
stabilizing the currency?
Yes, actually the National Pension
Services foreign exchange strategy is to
minimize portfolio volatility as much as
possible and protect the fund from
large-scale foreign exchange losses.
Within that framework, the goal is to
generate stable returns.
As the Juan, which has been relatively
stable, has recently shown relative
weakness, the National Pension Services
concerns are deepening. However, given
that Korea's economic fundamentals are
strong and corporate earnings are high,
it makes no sense at all for the one to
be weakened so sharply. The National
Pension Service has been responding to
exchange rate fluctuations in accordance
with its basic principles. Recently, due
to the war, the wan's weakness has
persisted for quite some time. So, there
are internal discussions about the need
for new policies at the National Pension
Service level.
Is 15001 per dollar the new normal?
I do not view it that way. We believe
the appropriate exchange rate is in the
low 1,400 W range.
Another global concern is the issue
around the private credit market. What's
the scale of NPS's investments there?
Fortunately, the NPS has not directly
invested in any funds that have
experienced investment losses or
redemption suspensions related to this
issue. So, there is currently no risk of
fund losses.
However, since crises often start small
and escalate, we are closely monitoring
the structural vulnerabilities in the
private credit market and responding
accordingly.
Yeah, the chairman and the CEO there of
the south of South Korea's National
Pension Service, Kim Song Ju there with
of course Sherry, right? Um a reminder
of our new online feature, the Bloomberg
video hub service can explore live
streams that specific interview back uh
live news interviews. Check it out.
mberg.com/videos.
Right. Uh, welcome back. Some some AI
chip or DeepSeek related names were
focusing on that. Nothing consistent so
far, but I guess the story is still
worth paying attention to in as far as
the company it's investigating this
hours long AI outage that's after some
users of course had brought that to I
guess the attention um but yes nothing
so far and as far as the reaction is
concerned keep in mind of course broadly
speaking we are seeing a declines uh
across most sectors most sectors today
uh except for I think pal palm oil
stocks I think should be going the
opposite way um if I'm getting that
correctly let's have a look at that
please if we can. There we go. Yes. And
some of the names of course listed in uh
Malaysia uh specifically on the back of
I guess the outlook there for the
bofuel. Um and just staying on
commodities basically too.
right this higher demand for bofuel as
crude climbs. Uh and so aluminum is
probably the next thing to watch here as
well given that some of these Middle
East facilities were targeted and struck
over the weekend here. You did see the
LM contract spike here and that's why
you're seeing Asian aluminum shares are
rising here this morning as well. That's
it for us here in the China show. See
you later.