TITLE: Income Investing: Masters in Business with Ed Perks
CHANNEL: Masters in Business
DURATION_S: 3566  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-07T10:01:23+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=srfePKZQ0ys
SHA256: dfb129c9bed8b0ad5e11393b85c86e5738b6701c908a3d70d98671104209227c

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2022] pretty loudly in 2022. Um so you know
  [2%] yielding one and a half to 2%.
  [2023] 2021 and 2023. U today we think that
  [2025] out well for us in 2025.
  [2002] in in 2002 was it was a large strategy
  [1990] 1990s. U the San Francisco Bay area had
  [2021] 2021 and 2023. U today we think that
  [1992] since 1992. He has all of these various
  [10%] cards 10%. Good luck getting a credit
  [5%] over 5% for a a while. Now we're in a
  [3%] there's a 2 to 3% dividend yield, but if
  [40%] that you know between a third or 40% of
  [1997] analyst role in 1997 and and taking on
  [20089] crisis 20089 where you know almost the
  [7525] last five years, that's been 7525
  [1981] bonds since uh 40 years earlier, 1981,
  [1950] 1950. And and then secondly,
  [1948] launch, which was I think 1948. Is that
  [90%] 90% mortgages when it started. They
  [35%] ended up at like 25 or 35% mortgages.
  [2020] new issues in 2020 or 2021 but come back
  [4%] when it was 3 and a half 4%. How do you
  [18%] up almost 18% NASDAQ up a little over
  [20%] 20%. How do you look at the rest of the

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
on the latest Masters in Business
podcast, My Conversation with Ed Perks.
He has been with Franklin Templeton
since 1992. He has all of these various
their flagship Franklin Income Fund, but
he's CEO of Franklin Income Investors,
president of their advisors group,
member of the executive committee. Uh,
not many people have been with the same
firm their entire career right out of
college. Ed Perks is one of them. Few
people more knowledgeable about fixed
income [music] and nonbond yield. I
thought this conversation was
fascinating and I think you will also.
With no further ado, my conversation
with Franklin Templeton's Ed Perks.
Ed Perks, welcome to Bloomberg.
you.
um CV. Before we get into the various
assets you manage, let let's start with
your background. Economics and political
science BA from Yale. That doesn't sound
very much like uh fixed income manager.
What What was the original career plan?
and uh, you know, at Yale, I I really
kind of um, you know, certainly had a
had a broad cross-section of of studies.
Um, you know, like many of my
classmates, I think if it wasn't med
school, it was either law school or or
going into government. I think that's
kind of some of what I was thinking
during school. Really didn't uh didn't
transition to um trying to pursue a
career in finance until actually after I
graduated. And uh, at that time I moved
out west. I wanted to um you know
experience a different part of the
country and uh particularly in the early
1990s. U the San Francisco Bay area had
a pretty robust financial services
community and uh so I headed out after
graduation without a job and and was
able to land at Franklin.
afternoon. That's that's the
the morning. I remember walking into an
office in San Francisco and at 8:45
there are pizza boxes around and it's
sort of oh that's right we're on New
York Wall Street time because the market
is live. Um so let's talk a little bit
about the 1990s. You joined Franklin
Templeton. Is this your first gig at a
school in 1992? You've been at Franklin
Templeton your entire career. Is that
right?
about what attracted you to Franklin
Templeton in the beginning and what's
kept you there for gez coming up on 40
years. Is that right?
up on Long Island, I drove a a small
Mississippi Mirage hatchback across
country. Um no satellite radio, right?
No air conditioning. Um no cell phones.
Um so it was a different time. But uh
got out uh to California, really had the
had the thought that I might experience
the West Coast for a year and a half or
two years and and make my way back to
New York and and get uh get the the real
job, so to speak,
to land at at Franklin at a time of of
just tremendous growth, not just in the
industry, but for our firm overall. I
actually joined the original Franklin
funds um prior to the prior to the
Templeton merger.
certainly dates me and makes me I guess
a little OG.
um interesting and I I landed at first
and took a role in in marketing
research. I knew very little about um
the industry structure and I wanted to
learn and it gave me a great um
cross-section um of of different
investment strategies. Um I had taken um
you know a class at Yale um investment
analysis taught by uh you know pretty
legendary uh endowment manager David
Swenson
hoped that it was a bit more of a um you
know a typical stocks for jocks kind of
class and and in fact it was not. Um but
that did plant a little bit of the seed
and and um you know but I knew I had
work to do to kind of prepare myself for
a role ultimately in in pursuing
research and uh and after about a year
and a half and taking one of the CFA
exams I was able to get that junior role
as a research analyst in the Franklin
Equity team. 1990s San Francisco, the
tech boom was just ramping up. Late
[snorts] 80s, early 90s. What What was
that experience like? That had to be the
roaring 90s. Had to be quite an
experience in San Francisco.
kicked into gear more in the 967 time
period and then certainly right
exuberance.
was still plenty of plenty of time to go
in it. But it was a very exciting time
uh to be out there not just in the tech
community but thinking about some of the
regional uh investment banks Montgomery
Securities and Hamburg and Quist and
Bobby Stevens you know so you had a lot
happening the the the economy as a whole
I'd say at that time was was uh uh far
more diversified than it is maybe today.
Obviously technology is such a dominant
player within uh Northern California.
smaller. It's just that tech ballooned
up so large and it dominates everything.
Although to be fair, I I I think finance
has it hasn't grown as fast as tech, but
it certainly expanded lock, you know,
fairly lock step with uh technology. Uh
what's fascinating about your time uh
your early days at Franklin Templeton,
you did credit, you did convertibles,
you did equities. H how important was
that sort of crossasset experience to
eventually becoming more of a
specialist?
it. I really was drawn to early days. I
was drawn to the different type of
analysis that you would perform based
upon the kind of company you were you
were following or industry you were
following. And we did have a a a broad
cross-section of of strategies managed
uh at Franklin. So as an analyst
following companies, you kind of always
had something to pitch a given portfolio
manager on and and that was something
that really attracted me. So whenever we
had some movement in the group or growth
um adding resources in a certain area
that was interesting, I kind of was
inclined to put my hand up and and that
led to a lot of the progression of of
the career ultimately moving out of the
analyst role in 1997 and and taking on
the duties of portfolio manager for that
dedicated Franklin conser uh convertible
securities fund. So over all these
different experiences and over time h
how does that lead to the evolution of
your philosophy
uh as an investor what what beliefs did
it strengthen and and what beliefs did
you learn to yeah this just isn't
generating any anything that's
worthwhile anymore? Well, I think the
first uh thing was really um kind of
understanding who you are as an investor
and and I I'm a pretty firm believer in
this that over time I I came to
understand that I like a certain type of
investing. Um, I like buying things that
um that trade at reasonable valuations
that um might not have a uh an immediate
catalyst but something that you can look
out over a longer period of time. Uh by
having that longerterm investment
horizon, um income naturally became
something you'd focus on. Um in terms of
just thinking about it from a standpoint
of getting paid to wait while your
investment kind of performs the way you
think it it it has the potential to. Uh
so that's something that that certainly
started to resonate at the early part of
my career. But I would say actually
getting involved in convertible
securities was a pretty significant
defining moment for me um in that you
can pursue investing in convertibles
which are hybrids which have fixed
income characteristics and have
investments that have the potential for
positive asymmetry. So securities where
with a given time horizon and a certain
move in the underlying common stock,
you'll do better on the upside than you
will get hurt on the downside. And it
was just something that really appealed
to me and I think is a core component of
what we've uh done historically and try
to do in our multiasset income
strategies. Let
have noticed as both a trader and an
investor that the equity guys who
started in fixed income seem to have a
greater appreciation for risk management
and for thinking about asymmetrical
……（中部抽样）……
trades where your downside is X and your
different different type of analysis.
when you're meeting with company
and now you want to talk about it from
think it gives you that that broader
our margins, how are how are profits
affect how you think about what what's
that today. I think there was a lot of a
investors. Right.
income markets and find you know
more muted but they can play a really
income investors. What's the biggest
in is more kind of where we can be
big uh risk components that we actively
income and equity assets
certainly something that we're
monetary policy,
doesn't mean we're going to make
we're waiting for some major Supreme
really a year. It seems every morning
with all this news flow? Is it something
markets if this seems to catch a little
movements, even if just for a short
maybe some of the large defense
the opportunity. But I think if you can
opportunities come in. And you know, I
tremendous volatility around a policy
DOJ referral with the Federal Reserve. I
glib how do you look at how the market
at the curve Okay.
the uncertainty level around um the
going on in fixed income. Lot of
Where are you seeing the most compelling
in fixed income, we are really pretty
we have different factors there. Um, you
the case or there was a long period of
same time you know we have seen extended
idiosyncratic risk. So sometimes in our
lever is a little less important and
we had in investment grade corporate
Is that something that at the current
settle in at a lower level that tips may
Um, are we getting enough spread between
corporates cheap or expensive uh high
to so if you're looking at tripleB
security selection. what is an
margin and if you can get ahead of that
definitely not mine, which is there's so
certainly there are investors that play
is.
your um authority to go anywhere. What
for any strategy. Um and and in my
yeah, markets bottomed in March09, but
to continually look forward. I mean I
think a lot of investors have the
lot of investors did in September of08
are benefiting in some way have some
recharge the portfolio. Pretty firm
uh and and that's something that you
So 2022 was the first year that saw
I've noticed people talking about
likely to happen anytime soon?
where rates should have been um you know
know don't expect that that can never
argued and if you look at our asset
um yields were look money markets were
credit quality? Is there now
particular. We have companies that are
way we treat that is that just because a
attractive place that we're looking
companies that have driven this market
of the decade. So if we can pursue
still retain, you know, a pretty
Fund. Um, you're only the third lead
lead manager of that fund.
of the history is something that I
in in 2002 was it was a large strategy
financial crisis and um you know
you know we realize that investors um
Franklin income in SMA vehicle and in
taking this uh strategy that's been so
celebrated its 75th anniversary. Ain't a
launch, which was I think 1948. Is that
bond fund a a stock fund a a preferred
attractive income investments. So
products that theoretically
evaluating different opportunities,
Double Line as an example, had a ton of
90% mortgages when it started. They
refinancing and or a lot of new
month or some wild number.
down is going to be probably the biggest
needs to be the direction of travel.
going to be a major major component of
it's still solid, but not as strong as
because it's not my charge to predict
a front seat, right? We had the Fed
cuts. Now, you know, I think there's a
the onset of tariffs and just the
reluctance to fire. So we're we're stuck
you said as we were coming out of the
Yeah, I think you know we've gone
underperformed. I think it's it's
market cap has has nearly doubled the
markets that there's a lot of
manufacturing investment or technology
selection or asset allocation?
exacerbated some of these dynamics
for us it really becomes more about um,
are not being influenced as much by the
income investor,
think over time can deliver for
for great quarter guys, you're looking
have and is there an overall core
bit more of a holistic approach for um
standpoint. Well, looking across the
meaning their bonds, their equity and
just capital appreciation why not own
we've really seen over the last 5 years.
longer term debt from those companies
companies, the stocks many cases were at
Microsoft and Apple in them in in that
issuance like that 2% what do why won't
that you know the more that's out there
that investment grade corporate bonds
doesn't mean it's not subject to
around its uh its returning to a more
that company and all its fixed income in
it company by company balance sheet line
need to get through there's also been
well. I think for us in in our strategy,
understanding that that path that
debt as it comes due. How do you think
we had the flash crash, uh we had that
Do investors look at these uh
think we've been through a lot over the
know, the the the long tooth that some
today than there certainly was um at the
investing across the range of fixed
systemic risks. Um, you know, I I think
growth, tremendous amount of capital um
markets. So, I think that's something
there were something that, you know, we
getting marks on the regular that are
space? And, you know, the main appeal
measures is somewhat debunked. I think
ultimately it it has a a meaningful
places to uh to ultimately uh have have
a certain area there's just a greater
classes we've talked about uh privates
quite as intuitive as equities. You must
view that if you're an income investor,
equity market. That's what you must
that's still something whether it's
replicate that kind of profile in our
cross-section in the equity markets to
how attractive they are, the valuations
non-ividend paying stocks, the mega cap
consistent growth of dividends. Um, I
would uh expect um if you go back to
Everybody talks about the concentration
Can we reasonably expect to see this
a little bit out of the spotlight. Um,
um, even in materials. some of these
that came out of the pandemic, you know,
that opportunity in the equity market.
thumped the US and the US was you know
……（接近结尾）……
Bitterroo Mountains on a trail
somewhere. But I I really enjoy um you
know reading. So, I'm I'm more of a
non-fiction um you know, kind of guy. Uh
occasionally I'll pick up something
else. Probably my my favorite of all
time is the Hemingway Classic Form The
Bell Tolls, where you know, you're
reading a um something that plays out
over 72 or so hours. And just um
something like that that really can let
your mind kind of go and the imagination
take hold is is always something that um
I've enjoyed, too. Um, I did just pick
up a new copy. I think it's probably
something that as uh as an American we
should all read. Um, and and certainly
Walter Isacson is not somebody that that
needs a plug of any of any sort. U he
wrote more of a pamphlet called the the
greatest sentence ever written. And
that's something that I think with
America
it's it's the greatest sentence ever
written. and um I haven't uh gone
through it yet, but I've heard heard him
speak about it and it's just very
inspiring and like I said, it's um it's
something that uh second sentence of the
Declaration of Independence with America
250 is maybe something that we should
all step back and make sure we read this
year.
on my list and I just read on vacation
last month, the sun also rises um but
nothing beats the old man in the sea.
That book just always speaks to me. Um,
not just as a fisherman, but his pros is
just so compact and tight and powerful.
Re, really very impressive. Um, you
mentioned Yellowstone, so I have to ask,
what are you streaming these days?
What's what's keeping you entertained?
but that's probably next. Um, you know,
I I really kind of like to um and and
maybe there is a sci-fi element growing
up. Well, my my sci-fi of choice would
probably something like Stargate SG1 or
something where you can really detach.
And I think that's a an important
component. Let the mind rest and and uh
be transported a little bit.
questions. Uh what sort of advice would
you give to a recent college grad
interested in a career in fixed income,
portfolio management, or just investing?
In a way, it would be just that. I see
far too many um college students, recent
grads that think they've already decided
what they want to
need to find the job in this. And I just
reflect on my own path that um
it it evolves quickly. Get in a seat
somewhere in an industry that you think
is interesting and see where it takes
you and don't be afraid to put your hand
up when opportunities arise. Just it's
it's you have plenty of time. You have
nothing but time.
you're going to spend the next 40 years
of your career. Is that your advice?
question, what do you know about the
world of investing today you wish you
knew 30 plus years ago when you were
first getting started?
in a lot of ways, you know, you almost
wouldn't want things to be to be
entirely different. Um, you know, I I
was fortunate in that I found that role
relatively early on that really
solidified the kind of investor I think
I am. What is that inherent DNA that I
have as an investor? So I think the
sooner you can kind of tap into that and
then explore ways to uh to follow your
investing based upon that. Don't try to
be somebody that you're not, you know,
and I have colleagues that manage um
pure growth funds that follow momentum
strategies and I think they do a
phenomenal job. I also very much know
that's not a job that I would have ever
excelled at.
expensive place to figure out who you
are. Absolutely. Ed, thank you so much
for being so generous with your time.
This this has been really quite
fascinating. We have been speaking with
Ed Perks. He's CIO of Franklin Income
Fund as well as member of the executive
committee and PM for a number of
different funds. Uh if you enjoy this
conversation, [music] check out any of
the 600 we've done over the prior 12
years. You can find those at Bloomberg,
iTunes, Spotify, YouTube, wherever you
get your favorite podcasts at. I would
be remiss if I didn't thank our crack
team that helps put these conversations
together each week. I'm Barry Rholtz.
Bloomberg's Masters in Business.