TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/30/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8657  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-30T16:24:50+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8HFQ9BefnPY
SHA256: b6cf4514d998b5a052b98b56856e0d2928da2362c4ce204c076cfcaec977d7e2

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2022] going back to 2022 and a feeling this
  [1%] just a third of 1%. Coming up this hour,
  [9%] &gt;&gt; We've had a correction of almost 9% on
  [2%] far. Brent 115 and up another 2% under
  [0.6%] &gt;&gt; Equity futures positive by 0.6%. Up next
  [2025] truce with the US in May 2025. Since the
  [0.4%] here on the S&amp;P 500 up by 0.4% following
  [3%] 3% in the pre-market after being up
  [90%] there maybe Car Island where 90% of
  [10%] down to 10% contraction versus 2025. I'm
  [2023] They did this in 2023 in terms of going
  [60%] almost 60%
  [1970] of the of the sort of 1970s and 80s,
  [7650] raising his 26 S&amp;P target to 7650
  [5%] NASDAQ up by.5% also in the bond market.
  [1990] across some teners since the late 1990s,
  [2008] the UK since 2008,
  [2021] period of the 2021 2022 period was just
  [14%] 14%. um if you go past 10, you're going
  [7%] down by close to 7%, Meta down by double
  [18%] But the PE ratio is down 18%. This is
  [8%] up 8%. Century alum aluminium also up 8%
  [0.5] Small caps up by 0.5. Brammo. Lots of
  [17%] now compressed by 17% which is in the
  [5900] where S&amp;P we see going down to 5900.
  [11%] Meta last week got hammered down 11%.
  [28%] quarter by the way over 28%. So and the
  [0.5%] up by 0.5% on the S&amp;P with an update on
  [1000] operation to seize nearly 1,000 pounds
  [2011] Germany since 2011. Is there a market
  [0.8%] are positive by 0.8%. Let's get you some
  [3500] region on Friday, 3,500 troops, about
  [2200] 2,200 Marines. Questions really about
  [8.7%] 8.7% from the January peak, we are still
  [1500] everything an S&amp;P 1500 or Russell 3000
  [3000] everything an S&amp;P 1500 or Russell 3000
  [25%] market bottomed on that 25% draw down
  [15%] like that 15% growth that's in the
  [5700] coming up with a range of like 5700 to
  [7400] 7,400. And if you look at kind of like

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
The level of uncertainty is extremely
high.
don't want to catch a falling knife.
Equity markets and markets generally are
resilient.
equity story ahead.
what's going to happen next in this
market. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, the war enters week five.
Brent crude adding to the biggest
monthly gain on record as Iranbacked
Houthy militants are beginning to enter
the conflict. And the post indicating
the Pentagon is preparing for a ground
operation. escalation risk is rising
biggest one-month gain on record. As
people start to reckon with this sort of
escalation risk, you're starting to see
real fear bake into markets. Not only
are you starting to see the concern
about some sort of slowdown uh being
expressed in bond markets, but you're
seeing uh five consecutive weeks of
losses in the S&amp;P 500 for the first time
going back to 2022 and a feeling this
isn't going to be a short conflict. and
attempting to work out to process what
the president's talking about in a
conversation with the Financial Times.
To be honest with you, my favorite thing
is to take the oil,
there maybe Car Island where 90% of
Iran's oil has to go through that island
as it goes through the straight of
Hermoose potentially. That is one option
that is on the table. There's a lot of
reporting though, Jonathan, not just
from the Washington Post about the
ground invasion potentially with
thousands of troops already in the
region, but also the Wall Street Journal
had this out overnight that the
president is weighing a military
operation to extract nearly a,000 pounds
of uranium from Iran. So, at this
moment, it does feel like the president
is keeping all options on the table
because he told reporters last night,
Air Force One that maybe this week
there'll be a deal via the Pakistanis.
Let's talk about it. twos, tens, and
30s. Yields lower across the curve so
far this morning. 10ens down by three to
about 440. You will have noticed going
into the weekend, the stocks closed at
the lows and so did the 2-year yield.
Are things getting so bad it's good for
fixed income?
we were talking about with Bob Michael
of JP Morgan Asset Management last week
when he said, "You've seen a technical
move, a wash out of positioning, and we
now can have a healthier kind of trade
in the bond market. Suddenly people are
worried about second order effects, the
disinflationary ramifications and
frankly the suppression to growth as a
result of high oil prices. You're
starting to see that baked into
multiples. You're starting to see that
baked into the bond market. How far can
that go?
from Sockgen and Michael Hey. We expect
Brent to average 125 through the month
of April and credible spikes towards
150. That's the latest from Sockgen. to
lift their 26 year end Brent forecast
from 65 to $80 a barrel.
in the paper market, it is nowhere near
the higher elevated prices you see in
the physical market, especially out of
the Middle East. And guess what? Things
over the weekend got even more
complicated when the Houthis decided
they were going to enter the war. At the
moment, the Red Sea Baba Deb straight
flow their flows when it comes to cargos
and vessels. But the Houthis have shown
that they have the capability to go
after those ships. And then at that
point, you'd be looking at straight of
Hermoose close as well as Baba Mandab
straight. You have two choke points in
the Middle East.
better. It's a bounce following five
weeks of losses on the S&amp;P 500 up by
just a third of 1%. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Lori Calvacina of
RBC with stocks on a fiveweek losing
streak. General Masten Robinson of
Academy Securities as the US forces
build up near Iran and Bob McN of Rapid
and Energy Group with crude back near
multi-year highs. We begin this hour
with our top story. Fresh strikes
ripping across the Middle East as
President Trump threatens to take
Iranian crude. Bloomberg's Jamala Beti
leading our coverage out of the region
and gives us some time this morning.
Jamala, welcome to the program. I read
that quote from the president to the FT.
To be honest with you, my favorite thing
is to take the oil. What's the reaction
across the region this morning?
Well, the reaction is that there has
been no progress on the diplomatic
front. And you know, a little earlier on
in the day when President Trump was
speaking to reporters, he seemed to
suggest that maybe Iran would come to to
the negotiation table and that perhaps
there is a possibility of signing a deal
in the next few days. And you saw
futures and stock markets turn on that.
But the reality on the ground paints a
very different picture. And to your
point, President Trump seems to be
implying that more military action is
forthcoming. We were talking about the
arrival of that first unit, the Marine
Expeditionary Unit. It came to the
region on Friday, 3,500 troops, about
2,200 Marines. Questions really about
where they're going to be deployed.
Remember, this isn't a huge number of
troops, and they would be capable of
perhaps going into these targeted raids.
There's been some discussion about a
potential takeover of Kar Island.
obviously very risky. Wall Street
Journal also reporting that they could
be deployed into inland territory and
perhaps look to uh conduct an operation
to take out that enriched uranium
stockpile. But again, a very risky
operation as well or they could be just
sent there as a means of deterrence. The
reality is we just don't know. But in
terms of the military operations over
the weekend, I will tell you once again
we have seen a massive uptick in
intensity. Uh on Friday evening uh
Israeli operations conducted some
strikes against two steel uh facilities
in Iran uh some nuclear research sites
and in retaliation to that Iran once
again lush back at Gulf States
infrastructure hitting uh two key
aluminium smelters in the region that's
having an impact on aluminium prices
this morning. A key air base in Saudi
Arabia, the Prince Sultan air base. The
US sustained some critical damage there
on some of their own jets. uh also a
dissalination plant in Kuwait and then
add to the mix as you were just talking
about a new front has opened up which is
the very fact that the Houthies have
decided to enter into the conflict. They
launched some attacks on Israel on
Saturday morning and the big question
from here is whether they are going to
start disrupting shipping again in the
Red Sea. And just a bit of a history
reminder here for viewers. Uh the
Houthies did sign a truce with Saudi
Arabia back in 2022. They also signed a
truce with the US in May 2025. Since the
Israel Gaza ceasefire of October 2025,
they have not done anything on the Red
Sea, but they reserve the right to do
so. And I think this is the big risk as
we head into the next couple of days and
whether really another front and this
conflict opens up, not just on the
Persian Gulf, but also now on the Red
Sea. And given how much oil Saudi Arabia
has managed to divert from the Persian
Gulf to the Yanbu ports, clearly a risk
for oil markets as well. Let's see if
that truce holds. Jamaa, thank you.
Appreciate the coverage as always.
Jamala Bachi there leading our coverage
out of Dubai. Policy makers are
scrambling. You're seeing it around the
world. Cats are cutting rates. Australia
h havinging its fuel tax for several
months. South Korea considering
expanding driving curves. The latest
from the Bloomberg team earlier on this
morning.
Asia, particularly in South Korea, even
uh throughout the region with a question
……（中部抽样）……
of physical goods not getting delivered.
but the reality is that, you know, at
of saying, okay, this isn't just an
seeing a lot of people sort of defend
you John as the week wore on last week I
last week as well, but we are seeing a
you are not at the average which is 18
our inflation numbers up in our stress
pain as well. Just last week, Microsoft
moving up. So, we got to this Iran
Pretty phenomenal. Amazing. Just try and
giving the US most of the demands from
Iran because we negotiate with him and
look we can get on that.
The US sending thousands of additional
market. Brent crude this morning at 115.
are within their border. One individual
sufficiently to where they start to
strong. We know that they are just
enough not pain but how do you create
invasion like, you know, Iraq. That's I
calculus of the military wanting to be a
the S&amp;P that's the longest since 2022.
concern about the oil shock, as well as
positioning, but right now people are
about a very low number compared to
already one of the biggest in history
claiming Iran is agreeing with most of a
getting anything. He said, "Well,
in Venezuela. Preference would be to
the key point is that they want oil
uh and other forces are are moving in.
then we'd be under constant bombardment
will, while others are constrained. Uh
of crude that could be lost for a long
the SPR barrels are flowing from the IIA
number is 10 or whether it's 20. Can you
went out. It was a gift. Uh we're
in financial markets. I'm not a doctor,
saying they would continue operations
do get concern that there is an
from Mike Wilson and Morgan Stanley. We
of the incoming costs are increasing.
less about Taco and more about Nacho,
to this by demand destruction. the rate
single month, and the fact that this the
also about polyester. It's also about
reference when thinking about this
That's absolutely right. But I think
playbook.
the way I see the the dollar
and China will be an ultimate
unnerving because this is an
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
given the fact that you potentially have
the Journal discussing a special ground
through Car Island where nine out of 10
the dip moment given the fact that we do
numbers after the towards the end of the
separates one versus the other. So if
risk event has been resolved in a
a shift in the dynamic when it comes to
react in all fairness if things go
impacted area is the consumer fs
sustained. If you look at the forward
lot of the problems in this market
going to spend uh in December we
23 right now and I and that's the reason
it's SAS, whether it's security, uh
points on 28% plus growth. They are
for 2026 nobody knows nothing because
was ever ahead of consensus. Now
An Iranian missile strike on a on a base
of Trump. I mean, harmless. Up next,
some kind of consumer demand push back.
the escalation over the weekend.
this potentially could be a massive
away from reaching an agreement.
push back politically from his
Congress to take up. Where does that
both the military side, but also on
going to need to be another $15 billion
great convo with Mickey Mouse and he was
is incredibly difficult to see how
heads for a record month of gains. From
plants, which we have personally not yet
uh Muhammad Galibbah who he mentioned as
probably be reached according to the
not sure where this leaves us given the
It does not sound like the Iranians want
companies like Expedia saying they're
of uranium from Iran. The Wall Street
we're making so-called great progress,
you are going to have to pay this regime
of people are concerned about. When you
the president?
looking for ways to lever up against
I think that the path to negotiations is
to supply chains and how much of a
Gulf area and maybe how much uh is is
early resolution.
hatch for at least a limit amount of oil
in in use of fuel and and other uh and
concerning to the likes of Clayton is
time down the road.
location in several cities including
threat to obliterate all of their
difference at least for a few hours not
up.
work. We've taken out about two and a
technicals behind this. The market was
declines in growth have been met with
fiscal stimulus so far is not part of
has put significant pressure on them
Do you think there's an
Anderson Rubnik, Neil Meta of Goldman
NASDAQ following the biggest weekly
you have a taco type trader? Trump
inflation to growth. We'll see if this
handle on this market. What has changed
kind of numbers over the next few weeks.
vigilantes are making a comeback. We
again uh to strike some of those power
essentially that the Ayatollah is is
trust here, but then also who exactly is
know it it's sort of gone a little bit
for making time for us. Jamaica Beti
to catch any flight out anywhere for
so if we have real demand destruction
they make a move, whether it's to cut or
I think that there's a force that's more
position, but they recognize that things
people have any real indication of what
believes. The S&amp;P's forward PE ratio has
US will destroy Iran's electric plants,
is headquartered in Montreal, Quebec,
spending. It's a question about AI
stuff and starting to price in a much
Kinder Morgan to 35, highlighting
Hallebertton and uh and SlumberJ as well
production in response to the increase
Inventory is starting to get dwindled
take years to come back online?
there's been meaningful infrastructure
going to grow on our modeling till at
move into the eight handle.
risk premium that needs to go on pricing
to October. On the NASDAQ, the worst
that's all I can say. They want to
progress. I think we're all trying to
all of their electric generating plants,
at play here.
from the war in Iran. First starting out
to their gains up around one and a half%
economic data on deck wrapping up with
territory just yet. That of course feeds
getting behind at the moment?
confidence and spending, then you'll
at the end of the day we got the QCW
labor market is healing. Seems like the
changes in oil prices to work their way
from having to or being able to raise
2025 cut rates because it was a
the inflationary backdrop. And so this
closer to uh 2%.
Houthis firing off missiles or drones in
closing the country's airspace and bases
……（接近结尾）……
So, that's going to increase uh
deficits. And then they might also need
to spend more on stimulating their
economies if we get a real kind of
stagflationary environment with the
emphasis on the stags, much slower
economic growth.
coming out of hiding and then quickly
going back into hiding time and time
again over the past couple of years. Are
we really reaching the point at which
bond markets are not going to finance
some of the fiscal hopes and dreams of
developed market nations as they face
off with another shock?
Well, it's it's a good point and I think
um the bond market clearly has the
attention of politicians. Uh we saw that
uh just last year with Liberation Day on
April 2nd uh when Trump imposed his
reciprocal tariffs and by April 9th he
postponed Liberation Day because of the
backup in bond yields. Uh, so the bomb
vigilantes uh do get the attention of
the folks in in the White House. And uh,
by the way, I think that's one of the
reasons they might have postponed their
two-day ultimatum into a 5-day ultimatum
and then a 10-day ultimatum is they they
were concerned by the backup in bond
yields and by the weakness in the stock
market. So the financial markets uh are
having a vigilante impact on policym
right now in Washington DC of Congress
coming together with another stimulus
package as part of the reconciliation of
the current dispute uh going on. What do
you think the market's response would be
to that? I'm talking about 10ear yields
in particular.
continued uh widening of the deficit uh
I think is fundamentally a bearish
development. And so, uh, stimulus in,
you know, we before the war, we all
thought there was plenty of stimulus
coming from, uh, last year's tax bills
with the refunds likely to be, uh, as
much as $1,000 extra for a lot of
people. And that's still in in in the
pipeline here. So, we already have
fiscal stimulus. Arguably, we also still
have monetary stimulus from the easing
that started a year and a half ago. uh
and to provide more fiscal stimulus and
then the president's asks for uh you
know asked for $200 billion in
additional defense spending. Uh well
that's that's you know a billion here a
billion there becomes a trillion pretty
pretty quickly and we all thought the
bond market that kind of learned to live
with withund $1.5 trillion in deficits.
Now let's see if we we may be stress
testing the bond market to see if it can
live with $2 trillion deficits at an
annual rate. Ed, always good to catch
up. Thank you, sir. Ed Yardani there of
Yardani research. It's an interesting
situation how consensus has shifted
coming into this year. Consensus view
was cyclical bounce and now consensus
view is you won't get second round
effects from the inflation spike because
the economy is not as strong. Find it
difficult to reconcile those two views.
Either you believe that the earnings
expectations are going up at companies
because the economy is strong and then
you've got a pass through of inflation
or you believe that demand destruction
is going to come into play and then some
of those earnings expectations have to
be overly optimistic. You are absolutely
correct. Which is it? And ultimately
this market is not choosing this market
is confused and rightly so.
East. the president speaking to Amarie a
little bit earlier on this hour saying
that this is going to wrap up pretty
quickly based on the conversation you've
had and the progress they're making in
talks so far.
war is unbelievable. But then he said
they want to settle, which if you're a
market participant and the president is
saying they want to settle, you would
think potentially they do want to
settle, but the Iranians say they're
not. And you have to remember there's a
lot of troops right now and that buildup
has happened over the course of the past
week. I should say indicating things
could wrap up pretty quickly, but
they've been indicating that for quite a
while.
another moment where you kick the can
down the road for a little bit longer.
settle. Coming up tomorrow, Sebastian
Paige, Tro Price, and a whole lot more
from New York City. Have a wonderful
week.