TITLE: How AI Is Changing Warfare | Palantir CTO
CHANNEL: Invest Like The Best
DURATION_S: 5350  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-10T12:00:32+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EB9V8d3ZYbc
SHA256: b6a6aa6d20d0cb8f7d63192f9b65ec54a7f4ea03ff9d4654b228e44850d89406

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [50%] near-fatal dose of gamma rays. 50%
  [85%] AI to automate 85% of expense reviews
  [99%] with 99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves
  [5%] companies 5%, it's no wonder that
  [80%] is 80% of the work.
  [2015] effectively riding on in 2015.
  [6%] Only 6% of spending on major weapon
  [86%] today is 86%. So, 86% of major weapon
  [90%] Higgins who designed 90% of the boats
  [2014] Crimea in 2014,
  [94%] that spending, 94%, went to what I call
  [1993] In 1993, there was a a very famous
  [2017] need paper in 2017?
  [3%] incremental 3% improvement to Google
  [10%] improvement of even 10% dramatically
  [9%] they have like 9% operating margins or
  [92%] wasn't Navy's idea. But then 92% of all
  [2006] in 2006.
  [1990] built satellites until 1990, General
  [4500] small as ours is only 4,500 people.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
My guest today is Shyam Sankar, the CTO
of Palantir Technologies. I think you'll
find by listening to Shyam that the
business itself, their mission and how
they built it, and indeed him in his
life, are completely fascinating. We
talk about his entire worldview, which I
find personally the most interesting.
This need to re-industrialize the United
States after decades of moving so much
of our production, and as he would argue
therefore our learning of how to
innovate and make things, off of our own
shores. We talk about the history of
heretics, people who have against the
odds designed solutions that have driven
so much of our success around the world.
Please enjoy my conversation with Shyam
Sankar.
So, Shyam, I think the most fun place
for me to begin because it's an it's an
area that you're interested in that I'm
fascinated by is a history of people in
American military lore who you call
heretics. You refer to them as heretics,
people like Hyman Rickover and Andrew
Higgins who designed 90% of the boats
that landed at Normandy, John Boyd who
invented the OODA Loop, which is one of
the great biographies of a of a military
figure that I've ever read.
Talk to us a little bit about how you
would define a heretic
um in your use of that term and why
you're so interested in that group of
people in US history.
You know, they they're founder figures
uh and they get obsessed with delivering
something that it makes no sense because
they're fighting in particular in the
military context you're like fighting
the bureaucracy, you're going to end
your career, you pay extreme prices for
it. So, there's almost like a
pathological obsession with winning,
which I really relate to both
personally, but also that's what I see
in great founders. I think
in the present moment
it's really important to like encourage
the that the hidden heretics who are in
there in the military today to recognize
like your heresy matters, and frankly if
you look back at history, the only [&nbsp;__&nbsp;]
that ever worked, the things that helped
us win all the wars, were the things
that the heretics actually did. Nothing
that went through the machine
delivered anything. I think all change
comes from these these heretics, and
they only later become heroes. If you
think about like Billy Mitchell who
invented the Air Force, you know, he was
court-martialed and died penniless and
depressed, and only after his death did
we invent the Air Force based on his
original heresy. I'm just fascinated
with what motivates these folks to keep
doing this. And I I guess I have relish
a little bit in in their rebellion and
the victory that the rebellion brings
about.
heretic story to understand this kind of
general idea, is it his story? Is it
someone else's? Which one would you
pick?
Rickover,
born in a shado in Poland, came to the
US when he was six, had one of these
like near miss moments where in those
days when you landed at Ellis Island,
you had 10 days for someone to come pick
you up. And his his mother gave someone
money to go send a telegram to the
father who'd already been here, and that
guy just pocketed the money. And so,
it's like the on the on the 10th day,
there was another guy who arrived at
Ellis Island who said who like bought
them one more day, who knew them. And
then he like ran out, got the father,
got them So, it's like this near miss
where this guy almost didn't even end up
here. He would have been sent back to
Poland.
Um but he was he was kind of this feisty
character. You know, he I think he was
like 5'2, very short. He went to the
Naval Academy. He was so unlikable that
like in the yearbook in the Naval
Academy, they'd like torn out his
picture. You know, he's just one of
these like difficult people. In World
War he drove a coal ship. He was not
like some exceptionally high-performing
senior you know, senior military officer
commanding a destroyer or carrier or
anything like that. But after the war,
he went to Oak Ridge. And and he
observed the the vestiges of the
Manhattan Project, and he had this idea
like we could build nuclear-powered
submarines. And he'd had this experience
on diesel-powered submarines,
which suck. They're basically surface
ships that happen to go underwater for
like an hour. This became this thing he
was obsessed with. And talk about talk
about chutzpah, like Oppenheimer himself
thought this idea was going to fail. You
know, so you have Oppie telling you
you're stupid and this isn't going to
work and you're just going to go
forward, right? Uh so he started on this
project and he he built the first
nuclear submarine in 7 years, start to
finish.
The Navy hated him so much that his
first office for this project was
literally the women's restroom.
They're like, "What can we do to
humiliate this guy into quitting?"
Uh but he just kept going. And if you
actually look at his personal memoirs,
you can see that the humiliation got to
him, but in a way that he could channel
it to be like motivating. It wasn't like
he was somehow immune to the pain of it
all, but he could push through it. And I
think recognizing like every major
project you do is going to push you in
these sorts of ways and like how do you
dig deep? How do you grind through the
pain?
Um and he created really unique culture
in naval reactors, which is alive today.
So I think part of what's really cool
is that our nuclear submarine force is
one of our last remaining asymmetric
advantages against the Chinese and we
built it in the '50s.
What a legacy for this guy to have
built. And then the engineering culture
that he created, um you know, he was in
this unique role of both being a human
who would invent the technology and
therefore was qualified to think about
how to regulate it. So whereas the the
Russian submariners,
they would send they would spend roughly
6 months at sea and then 6 months in
Sochi recovering so their white blood
cells could regenerate because the
radiation shielding sucked.
We've had no deaths due to nuclear
incidents in our submarine force and he
designed it to a standard which is
really he's like, "I'm designing this
thing so my son could be in it." And
it's it's a hundred times safer than
what we believe the minimum standard to
be. And that that sort of obsession,
it's like a you know, it's not a
manager's view of the world. It is a
founder's view of the world. One of his
legacies, like he was an admiral for 30
years. And even as an admiral, he was
very
difficult. You know, Zumwalt, who was
the chief of naval operations for a
while, he said, "The Navy has three
enemies, the Soviet Union, the Air
Force, and Hyman Rickover."
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back using
AI to automate 85% of expense reviews
with 99% accuracy. And since Ramp saves
companies 5%, it's no wonder that
Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs on
Ramp, and my business does, too. To see
what happens when you eliminate the busy
work, check out ramp.com/invest.
Every investor should know about Rogo
because Rogo AI's platform is not just
another generic chatbot. Instead, it was
designed to support how Wall Street
bankers and investors actually work,
from sourcing, diligence, and modeling
to turning analysis into deliverables.
For me, three key things differentiate
Rogo. First, it connects directly to
your systems so it can work with your
actual data. Second, it understands your
workflows, how work really happens
across a deal or an investment. And
third, it runs end-to-end and produces
real outputs the way the best people do.
Auditable spreadsheets, investment
memos, diligence materials, and slide
decks that match your standards. This
all comes from the fact that Rogo is
……（中部抽样）……
built by finance professionals for
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
was sort of a bastard as well like
and then this sort of like
software but are not in charge of buying
piss off literally everyone along the
story, your personal worldview seems
combination of family history, the
gratitude and perspective on the trials
thing if it happens to you, but it's
profoundly optimistic period. I mean,
I think that's really it. It's it's this
conclusion, but leading up to it, there
astonishingly bad track record. We've
like despite the resistance,
totally disfigured teeth. And he just
world, what are the key components?
lot of cultures don't have that.
that they can't update their priors. And
can we go do things that are actually
other end is something better, something
modeled our entire company as an artist
if you drive that to the extreme, you
my key goal was to unlock talent in in
high high-achieving people
walls, but that wasn't some sort of
basically a waste of time. So how do you
something you can work on. The only
that because the discovery of kryptonite
And And that I think was
And I took away from that how important
one or two more questions about the
to solve a problem which was truly
uh
It's not like he lifted a little bit
information and exhaust that if you see
work. So this sort of structured career
you're working on a problem you don't
off the deep end, go after problems
until basically the last second whether
and they're interested in that sort of
people who are hiring you as much as
but I think early on I think the early
have come out of this that have like
creation is downstream of the culture.
is able to reform as the problem
have to wait until it's totally broken
this, you don't get to spend nearly as
and crazy and and they have to
that involve some forward deployed
industrial complex, which is that
on the factory floor, in the foxhole.
sales engineer out there whose job is to
are people who know how to build it the
built is? And that's what the
these vectors in a way that you're going
terms of the overall development of the
We should solve it now and effectively
believe that other people disagree with
would go to the final assembly line on
need this to try this model? One one
solving. So, your the problems you're
creating. Our economics will be
boxes." It's It's some sort of heterodox
You know, but if you're like us and you
read a fairly detailed description of
we have built an enterprise operating
transactional system or makes sense to
programmable.
have an OODA loop. Like I want to make
your security work and deliver a single
forward. One unified platform that
like what the process is of establishing
second thing is that we are a wildly
A350. You know, the A380 was a wonderful
and he'll learn how to figure it out.
makes your life suck? What's hard about
though, you're able actually to pivot it
customers. You start with one problem,
events. If you're fighting Russia,
what you have to solve this problem."
motivating. It enables you to get
"Hey, when are you going to stop stop
deter our adversaries from conflict. If
arguably in the last year we've started
deterrence capability against a peer
and Russian weapons.
reasonable thing for the American people
was a Danish emigre,
production when we were not fighting. We
Now, if you come to the present moment,
the fall of the Berlin Wall.
subsidizing our national security, that
superpower
They were their own like what we would
reasonable for the people to say, "We
you." And this just set off a merger
economy where there was enough kind of
incredible. You can't look at that and
Churchill quote, won't get it exactly
things, exquisite people, exquisite
have been yesterday, the next best time
need paper in 2017?
whole car." Um, they WuXi went from
advantage. And I think I think we have a
about this with much deeper vertically
than a worker anywhere else, you're
we don't have the machine tools
this isn't going to keep working. Like
Uh today your child has an ear
face to mobilize around it. Maybe one of
reduces the adversary's leverage.
been to China. It's like it's another
your view on.
Uh the the problem is they cheated the
So,
trying to smuggle in agricultural
valley and then flooded it. You want to
we're going to we're going to turn the
to react.
we're talking about with John Boyd. They
bit of an easier game because they're
those are a result of distillation. And
motivator in the private sector.
Rickover enjoyed his celebrity for a big
they have like 9% operating margins or
capitated, you're not supposed to take
boat. The Heresy is the boat that won
having done this for 20 years for the
the window and the moment for this stuff
things that you think could carry the
a time of crisis you could go from, say,
look like that. If you go back to the
including Russia and China except for
opportunity is an amazing part of the US
what are things that you wish were
things that the adversary is unable to
self-sustaining. That's as true for
human has a disposition that they want
game. If you win today, you have the
fascinated by tradeoffs. It just seems
discover what those projects are? I like
it, their world is shaken up, it
business if you're constantly changing
championship performance and he kind of
it's really painful.
small as ours is only 4,500 people.
the in the midst of these pivots just
internally or tactically?
it's trying to set the conditions to
where people are allowed to go build
these things.
Palantir competitor, it would be much
first adopters of AI for us were the
is like, "You know what? The best people
question of like, "Okay, we have AI,
what you kind of observe out there is
essentially AIP, from first principles,
are we going to be in 2 years? Where are
that that rate is compounding
can't look my kids in the eye and not
the last year than the prior 19 years
important?
those roles is determinative to the
do this thing if we just let the
that's not a one-off. Like literally
care about and make sure they work GPS
ourselves a defense company. Like we're
think
better,
trying to steer the steering wheel.
institutions and the people who do the
data, you're doing surveillance through
……（接近结尾）……
the same for everybody. What is the
kindest thing that anyone's ever done
for you?
in the story is uh
Miss Ethel Danhoff was the head of
admissions for this private school in
Orlando. Uh and you know, my my dad took
me for a tour of the school having
learned that it's the best school and
like that was the that was the other
fixation my dad has that education was
how you were going to achieve some
prosperity. It's like I'm going to give
my son every opportunity I possibly can.
Turns out we'd missed the admission
window by a mile and everything was kind
of done and you know, I I was actually
very reluctant to go even on this trip
and see the school. I was very happy
with the school I was at and but I was
when I saw the science facilities there,
I was like I need to go here. I need to
learn this stuff. This is inspiring.
And you know, so now I was all spun up
and excited and of course I'm learning,
hey, you totally screwed this up and
you'll have to wait a year. And Ms.
Danhoff, I no data. Like, you know, it's
not like I had some standardized test
scores or something. She's like, "Give
this kid the admission test. Just do
it." And maybe she had a modicum of data
after that test, but we were a family
that needed financial aid. So, it's
like, here it is. Like, let's admit a
kid that we're going to have to
subsidize to come here. And that opened
the entire future. And I think, you
know, if you look later in life, okay,
maybe maybe people have cynical reasons
to help you. You're further along. They
they think there might be something in
it. It's like, there's nothing in it for
her. It's just a profound act of
kindness that fundamentally changed my
life.
your time.
your time on their app to juice
engagement. Ramp does the exact
opposite. Ramp understands that no one
wants to spend hours chasing receipts,
reviewing expense reports, and checking
for policy violations. So, they built
their tools to give that time back,
using AI to automate 85% of expense
reviews with 99% accuracy. And since
Ramp saves companies 5%, it's no wonder
that Shopify runs on Ramp, Stripe runs
on Ramp, and my business does, too. To
see what happens when you eliminate the
busy work, check out ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
in scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm. OpenAI, Cursor, Anthropic,
Perplexity, and Vercel all have
something in common. They all use
WorkOS. And here's why. To achieve
enterprise adoption at scale, you have
to deliver on core capabilities like
SSO, SCIM, RBAC, and audit logs. That's
where WorkOS comes in. Instead of
spending months building these
mission-critical capabilities yourself,
you can just use WorkOS APIs to gain all
of them on day zero. That's why so many
of the top AI teams you hear about
already run on WorkOS. WorkOS is the
fastest way to become enterprise ready
and stay focused on what matters most,
your product. Visit workos.com to get
started. Every investor should know
about Rogo because Rogo AI's platform is
not just another generic chatbot.
Instead, it was designed to support how
Wall Street bankers and investors
actually work, from sourcing, diligence,
and modeling to turning analysis into
deliverables. For me, three key things
differentiate Rogo.
First, it connects directly to your
systems so it can work with your actual
data. Second, it understands your
workflows, how work really happens
across a deal or an investment. And
third, it runs end-to-end and produces
real outputs the way the best people do,
auditable spreadsheets, investment
memos, diligence materials, and slide
decks that match your standards. This
all comes from the fact that Rogo is
built by finance professionals for
finance professionals, and it's already
being adopted by some of the most
demanding institutions in the world. To
learn more, visit rogo.ai/invest.