TITLE: $8B Investor: The Only Career Move AI Can't Replace | Bill Gurley
CHANNEL: Silicon Valley Girl Podcast
DURATION_S: 2071  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-12T13:00:03+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nBM3_AzNYU8
SHA256: d990b1d273f0f2da519aa2a1e40c33cb4692e61e185cb0e1c853f4dc83ce756f

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [100%] pursuits, but I think if you become 100%
  [2023] 2023 Gallup poll study that came out and
  [50%] said over 50% of people aren't actively
  [23%] qualifies engaged is like 23%. So, if
  [2026] in 2026. But what I find the most
  [8.25] year ago. $8.25

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
The thing to do right now is to run as
fast as you can.
This is Bill Gurley, the legend who
backed Uber and Zillow, who's lived
through every major tech cycle for over
25 years, and he says this one is
different.
from this new technology that if you
don't take control of your own career
path, you're likely at risk. We did a
survey where we asked people, if you
could go back in time and start your
career over again, would you do
something different? And six out of 10
said, yes. Before AI, the wrong career
choice cost you years. With AI, the cost
becomes colossal. We have this window of
opportunity that's closing, so we should
be working really, really hard right now
to grasp this opportunity. How much time
do we have?
that
Bill,
welcome to Silicon Valley Girl. Thanks
for having me on. Greatly appreciate it.
Thank you. I had a question planned, but
there's news that just came out.
Jack Dorsey, is laying off nearly half
of its staff in deliberate and bold
embrace of AI. Yeah. Should people be
scared? Well, I'm going to say yes, but
I'm going to qualify it a little bit.
And the AI tools are out there. They've
been out there for two or three years
now. They're not going to be put back in
the box. They're not going to go away.
My advice, which is very straightforward
for anyone in any field, to protect
yourself against AI, be the most AI
enabled version of yourself possible.
Okay. And know what it's possible of in
your field. Know the edge of what it's
possible of in your field.
Um, use it as much as you possibly can,
cuz one thing I've learned, just in my
own endeavors, that the types of prompts
that you think of giving it increased
the more you use it. Like, you start to
understand what it's capable of. And so,
any lack of leaning into it means you're
getting further behind against people
that are
that are. It's new in that it's hitting
white-collar workers, which I think
people had viewed those jobs as safe, um
which may have been a mistake. And and
look, if if you've been replaced, I
would really, and this gets into this
new book I'm
releasing, I would ask yourself, is that
the role you really loved and wanted to
be in? And if not, maybe this is an
opportunity for you to go find that.
Okay, so yeah, we're going to see a lot
of this type of news. You said that
playing it safe, and you mentioned safe
jobs, we considered them safe. We
thought intelligence is something that's
going to get us through our lives. Um
you say safe is now the highest risk
move. Can you explain?
advisors and counselors and parents push
people towards jobs that they thought of
as safe. And the reason I say it's
unfortunate isn't because of AI. If
you're unfulfilled at work, there's a
2023 Gallup poll study that came out and
said over 50% of people aren't actively
engaged at work. And the number that
qualifies engaged is like 23%. So, if
you're in these roles you don't really
care that much about and you're not
pushing yourself to improve, you're kind
of a sitting duck anyway like for these
things. And I personally believe that
all those parents were quite
well-intentioned
and very
um worried about the economic stability
and viability of their children's lives.
But, the truth of the matter is you only
get one shot at this life. If you can
find something that you're just insanely
curious about, you're going to
differentiate yourself
so much greater than everyone that's
around you. I think in many aspects of
life,
um
the the economic part comes along if
you're really great at what you do. Can
you Can you give me three traits of a
person who doesn't play it safe? What do
they do daily? Well, first of all, I
think having one I think the
the number one reason I wrote this book
was to give permission give people
permission to chase a job they might not
have thought was either possible or that
they might have thought someone would
try and talk them out of. And there's
examples in the book of that. Danny
Meyer, who's a famous restaurant tour in
New York and the man that started Shake
Shack.
His uncle told him he should go be a
restaurant tour, but he was on a path,
poly-sci major, salesman, taking the
LSAT, going to go be a lawyer. And his
father had had some problems with
economic trouble in businesses related
to restaurants and it pushed him away
from it. His uncle is the one that kind
of brought him back.
But his uncle told him, "You know, all
you do
all weekend long is search for the best
restaurants and even journal."
Apparently, since he was a kid, he
journaled about restaurants. But he
never given himself the permission to
think of it as a career and go after it.
And the reason you're more protected is
if you adore something, you're just
constantly learning for free. Yeah. Like
you're not spending like
the second principle in the book is hone
your craft and I talk about continuous
learning and many people I think
unfortunately learn in school and they
think, "Oh, I'm done now. I'll go work."
But the best are just always learning
about what they do. And for the best
that are
hyper curious about that subject area,
there's they gain energy in absorbing
that new information. Whereas if you're
forced to go to a class on something you
don't like, you lose energy. It feels
tedious. Yeah. Which is a great test as
to whether you're tilting against the
the right the right thing or not. So
basically, don't listen to everyone
around you.
Uh I mean, he used extreme forms of
this. I I I to meet Rick Rubin. He said,
"Every single career decision he's made
in his life, people around him told him
not to do it, and they were all the best
decision he possibly I mean, you can
take that to an extreme, right? Like,
don't just go, you know, on quixotic
pursuits, but I think if you become 100%
convinced that you want to go try
something, and and I have test in here
for whether you're really passionate at
that level, um then yeah, I think you
should go try. Like, and I think I think
you'll find you're more successful and
more fulfilled. And I like the
continuous free learning. So, you're
learning not because you're required to,
but because it's your passion. You spend
people I know that are like that. I
think everyone's met people that are
like that. Silicon Valley's
full of a lot of people like that, uh
especially about new technologies. So,
you know, you read an article about
Clawbot, and you just can't not Yeah.
you know, boot one and try and figure
out what it does. And And if you're that
type of person, you're in the right
lane. Like, like you're so fascinated by
the subject that you have to know what's
on the edge. Yeah. And by the way, it's
interesting to think about the edge as a
place that's safe from AI. So, AI and
large language models are recording like
all the best practices that have been
written down. But, the stuff that's on
the edge, that's that's being discovered
today, is not in the models. And so, if
you're competing by being a person who
has that knowledge in any field that
hasn't been written down yet, you're
you're out in front of what these models
are capable of. Yeah, and through trying
new things. Yes. I feel like Yeah.
We talk about AI tools constantly, but
honestly, most of us don't feel the real
value until we see it applied to
something very, very specific that
changes everything. Something we
actually do every day. So, let's talk
about outreach. If you're a creator, you
need brand deals. If you're in sales,
you need leads. If you're a founder, you
need investors, partners, customers. And
right now, done properly, LinkedIn
outreach takes 10 to 15 hours a week.
Every single week. This is exactly where
AI changes the math. And LinkedHelper is
……（中部抽样）……
the concrete example I want to show you.
desktop native. It runs through a real
in 2026. But what I find the most
cloud. And instead of sending the same
to them. That level of personalization
per month. You get scaled outreach. And
spending it on work that actually moves
what Bill was talking about. AI as a
waste the hours getting to them. Setup
available. All right, let's get back to
and I know you recently stopped, but
founder?
that you would never
choosing a founder. I I think the best
outside of the box naturally. Um I think
determined that they they might come
one that would say this. I think if you
almost a search for that type of
ad about the crazy ones, you know. It
in this world because it you're becoming
especially in certain fields, there is a
control of your your own career path,
if you're a high agency individual who's
actually a jetpack. Like you if you if
where you can learn faster. And you
There's interviews all over YouTube. You
part of why I um react poorly to the AI
to do right now is to run as fast as you
something that gives me a lot of
this window of opportunity that's
this opportunity." Can you elaborate on
window is necessarily closing. I just
capable of so many different things that
their industry, in their role. And and
that Mhm.
big fan of these dystopian narratives.
anxiety this dystopian anxiety is like
the problem and I I don't fully
and he's got the microphone all the
healthy for all the reasons we already
also sometimes when I see those
it's it's also has a positive angle to
but it also could freeze them, which
unlearning what made you successful
working person. I would say yes to every
probably, but I'm not sure, probably the
decide and how do you actually do it?
strong opinions loosely held and I I
difficult to actually get out there and
sacred. Like, don't think of anything as
being a continuous learner
prepared to know when to let go of
awareness that it could be a problem is
actually in your way. Yeah.
Uh chase your curiosity. And this is
There's this hype and that hype. I want
you can push for for years and it
curiosity. I I went out and studied all
exercises you can run to try that I
know, hobbies are a big one. There's a
became very successful. Like, if there's
engineer for for 2 and 1/2 years,
studying stocks and trading stocks when
that's a sign." But, it was, right? And
whatever it is that fascinates you.
question. Some of these people uh didn't
Like it's fine to take a job where you
is this it? Is this what I want to do
that I did in my first two stops in my
years from now?
two cases I got to a place where I
else. Bezos had a similar thing he
self giving you advice on helping with a
over time. Yeah. And when you studied
10, right? What do you think was the
newsletter where I go deeper on AI tools
podcast. It's free. Link is in the
actually we did a survey where we asked
do something different? And six out of
And you know, it might be you're at
A on an accounting exam or something or
be a doctor, you got to be a lawyer and
in a pathway where it wasn't an exercise
so, it
well-intentioned. I don't think they're
of the child.
name, like top three jobs that are
seem to me the earliest threats are ones
translation, paralegals, like these
Um the those are those are already it's
where almost any job you could think of
probably think of a great athlete as an
say the best in those fields probably
[snorts] field quite a bit, and I think
that I think is reasonable that that
network? Do you have a strong mentor
you or know you or what you're capable
think are dying? Um dying? Um well, I
think once again, you you know,
language than language itself.
was just grinding writing out code. If
to reduce code to make something more
But I would go back to saying the best
all the new AI tools work.
If you're a farmer with a tractor and a
and a and a donkey, right? You're just
tools. This one came out of this fast, I
Uh let's talk about the tools. You said
all we're all using ChatGPT for search.
our trips. What is the next step? What
can say, "I'm going to go see this
should I anticipate?" And it's like this
to do. And And I was
asked, I'd be like, "Well, you could ask
Like I just they don't think like
more you roll around on it, the more you
new one on that.
ideate like simultaneously. I came up
to find like 20 examples of this idea I
the results yet, but I will later.
mean, you're probably better to try them
before and now you can never do it
than than looking it up. And even like
straight to the information versus like
getting it to do agentic work on my
from VC is is because I grew tired of
that's that's that's a strong one. Let's
are building since you were investing in
Why? Um
may be if once again, if if all the
like, you could be under threat. The The
database and it's not great at math yet.
times have you done a query where
wouldn't want it writing errors into
Claude or ChatGPT. What if I just ask it
install any apps? Think about consumer
right? Exam prep. SAT was just released
to disappear. That could be true. That
software companies that had massive
thinking about what they're building?
create a ton of opportunity. And one of
every single venture capitalist, I'm
think they've forgotten about the
And the reason they have so much
you know, step around and take market
so, I'm going to sound so redundant, but
all of your listeners that it's very
whether you're judging that from the
venture capitalists won't take a a with
I think complaining about that's useless
great time to bootstrap one of those
re you know, response to that. But you
and try and raise money. Yeah. And you
right now. Everything's happening. I
people who chose safer careers, right?
everything. And I I really like that you
interview, you should be surrounding
calm and focused and motivated. Any tips
chapter on peers, but but let let's take
game, most people shoot too high and
them and and I
different things. Take advantage of all
would call aspirational mentors. So,
Google Doc, I don't care what like and
AI about them and just build like a
LeBron James, right? And I think that
It also test whether this is the thing
this you're not in that
Or you like I'm trying to be this. Here
are my dream house.
built these 10 profiles of these people.
……（接近结尾）……
Like having other YouTubers just
brainstorm ideas in your niche.
YouTuber named Jimmy Donaldson that did
this at the end.
just copied [laughter] him. But he was
doing the same thing.
conference and I thought, "Oh my god, I
should be doing this, too."
time, right? And I have two kids, a
6-year-old and a 4-year-old. I was
raised uh by my Soviet parents. Tell me
you have to study, study, and study.
That's the only way to grow, that's the
only way to build a sustainable life.
So, I was studying from 8:30 a.m. to
8:30 p.m.
Will this still apply in today's world
to our kids or should I be teaching them
something completely different?
little different than than what's true
here. But, I still think I think the
thing that's happened in North America,
which is a version of that, is it's
become so hard to get into universities
here that starting in the sixth grade
parents are worried about it. Jonathan
Haidt calls it the resume arms race.
You're worried about them getting into
college, so you want your college
application. Yeah, yeah.
They stop worrying about the college
application. And here here instead I
think it might be better if they just
studied 12 hours instead. Here, you add
in chess lessons, lacrosse lessons, like
volunteering at the SPCA. You're like
And these kids are so scheduled. Like
And I I What I fear is that they get to
the end of the college and they're just
burned out like because they've been
told
Angela Duckworth says they've been
taught to persevere. Like like we've
trained
Um the area where it might not be good
is if they never take a breath to
explore and figure out what they want to
do. It used to be in the US college
system they wouldn't allow you to pick a
major until the end of your sophomore
year. Now at many schools you have to
apply to the major as part of the
application process. And so we're we're
asking people to specialize earlier and
earlier and then maybe they never had a
chance to really figure out what it is
they enjoy. And they might have fallen
into one of those pathways for random
reasons like we talked about before. So,
what would be your advice to modern
parents? Take a deep deep breath
and create as much
opportunity for exploration as possible
for the kids. Just expose them to a lot
of different things. And try and get a
sense of genuine interest on their part.
Yeah. You know. Love it. Okay, if
someone's watching right now, uh they're
in a job they don't love, but they're
afraid to make a move. What is one thing
they should do this week?
you might go towards. And part of this
I'm borrowing from a professor at
Stanford, Dave Evans. He talks about
like battle carding scenarios. So, the
same exercise we said where you could go
study this person, you could say, "Okay,
I'm going to be be out of here within 6
months." And create a digital like
role-play of, "Okay, I'm what am I going
to go do?" And you could do that for
maybe three different directions, right?
And roll around in it. Like scenario
plan. Mhm. Right? What is What is the
first Then once again, check you know,
an AI tool could help you do this. Okay,
I would like to repot myself into this
career within 6 months. What should the
first week look like? What It'll give
you something. It'll It'll spit
something out. And And you may disagree
with that. You may reorganize it, but
the thought process of going through
what it might look like will help you it
versus just being frozen. Yeah. And the
power is coming back to it every single
week with new data. Like I tried this.
Here's how it works.
different ones, you know, I think you'll
start as you fill in the details, you'll
[snorts] start to have a sense of which
one you prefer. Whereas it it may just
be too abstract at the high level.
Thank you so much. I think it was very
useful and very practical. And I I
encourage everyone to read your book.
Can we show it? Running Down a Dream.
Love it. I love the name.
episode on the future work, you're going
to love my recent conversation with the
CEO of LinkedIn. We went deep on the
exact same topic. Link is right below.
Check it out, and I'll see you in the
next one.