TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/13/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8619  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-13T16:30:31+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mBrZBaybVyg
SHA256: ffc71d2776ef262d986b1d9b0fd4be3e895a3404d77098694a4b0896283a6f65

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] up by 3rd of 1% on the session so far,
  [2022] 2022 after the Russian invasion. And so,
  [2%] slowing of economic activity, a 1 to 2%
  [4%] 500 dropped more than 4% from the peak,
  [0.7%] for the fourth quarter. It goes to 0.7%
  [10%] close to 10% up on the month by around
  [3%] expecting 2 to 3% real growth and, you
  [7.8%] Adobe. The shares down 7.8% in the
  [1.4%] 199 and down by 1.4% on Brent, on WTI
  [0.4%] 0.4%
  [3.63] every day. Today, $3.63.
  [2026] 2026 ending with much softer growth and
  [9%] up on the week by around 9%. In the
  [40%] month between 30 to 40% so far through
  [2024] The yen, the weakest level since 2024.
  [1.1%] particular, down 1.1% and this comes
  [2.8%] if we flip over, they're up 2.8%
  [5%] asset class makes up about 5% of its
  [2008] oil prices are likely to exceed the 2008
  [30%] 30%," and it's not worth it. I mean, are
  [99.50] that level, just briefly, 99.50 on
  [1970] like the 1970s and '80s, we had two oil
  [4.26%] to last 3 and 1/2 years. Is it 4.26%
  [0.2%] 0.2% on the S&amp;P and the Nasdaq, a 0.2%
  [0.5] 0.5.
  [0.5%] negative by 0.5%. WTI down by 1.35. That
  [20%] Russia situation here. We have an 20% of
  [2.4%] from 2.4%.
  [100.80] digits, $100.80
  [0.2] 0.2. Setting the tone once again this
  [100.50] triple digits, $100.50,
  [95%] &gt;&gt; How many people? I would say about 95%
  [3.0] of Google's Gemini 3.0 and it hasn't
  [1.10] start talking about the levels of 1.10
  [2023] Just like it was at the end of 2023,
  [4.17%] Median yield on the 10-year note 4.17%
  [99.90] at the moment 99.90, WTI 94.40. We heard
  [94.40] at the moment 99.90, WTI 94.40. We heard
  [100.30] highs, $100.30.
  [50%] China has put on Iran. About 50% of the

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Investors are giving this bull market
the benefit of the doubt.
event, equities are going to be fine.
this as a buy the dip in all the risk
assets.
large cap or mega cap growth stocks.
time unknown.
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Annmarie Hordern.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday holding on to triple digits
around supreme leader vowing to choke
off supply through the Strait of Hormuz
as the president claims defeating the
enemy is more important than the price
of energy. The Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessent is providing Russia with more
sanction relief. That story is where we
begin this hour. Brent holding on to
this week's gains as supply remains
squeezed. Scott Bessent writing the
following to increase the global reach
of existing supply, Treasury is
providing a temporary authorization to
permit countries to purchase Russian oil
currently stranded at sea. It's another
push to keep a lid on crude.
focusing on. Number one, Russia seems to
be the biggest winner or one of the
biggest winners through all of this. Uh
there was a report out saying that
Russia's earning as much as $150 million
a day in extra revenues tied to the
higher price of oil ever since the
Strait of Hormuz closed. So that's on
one hand. And then of course you have a
policy question here in the United
States. And on the other hand it
highlights how little power the US has
to bring down oil prices in other
manners. It's tried all sorts of
measures whether it's releasing the SPR,
talking about the futures markets, but
ultimately they're running out of tools
barring just opening up the strait.
we've seen so far this week. The
announcement of a record reserve release
for energy, get more barrels into the
market, some vague promises of doing
more, and then further sanction relief
for Russia. The market is speaking for
itself. Crude is up again on the week by
close to 10% up on the month by around
40 and crude right now holding on to
triple digits.
incremental uses. Also, they're weighing
the Jones Act. They're obviously having
some more relief to Russian oil. They're
tapping the SPR. But to Lisa's point, to
your point, until the Strait of Hormuz
is actually back and open and tankers
are flowing through that are not
Chinese-flagged or Iranian-flagged, then
at this point the market is going to
continue to grind higher, especially as
the conflict continues.
last 24 hours. The United States is the
largest oil producer in the world by
far. When oil prices go up, we make a
lot of money. That's the statement from
the president, which is kind of
unbelievable to see the direction of gas
prices right now going into the midterms
a number of months away.
deeply unpopular at a time where
affordability has been the key issue?
Yesterday, Libby Cantrill of Kimco was
saying that right now a lot of people,
even in Republican circles, are saying
this has been political suicide given
the time that there is really a focus on
cost of living to see gasoline prices
rising at such a significant pace since
the start of this conflict. You can try
messaging it all you want, but you can't
message people's pocketbooks in a
different direction and people see with
their eyes and they're not so silly to
not be able to understand what they're
seeing.
money? Sure, Exxon, Chevron, some of the
big oil players potentially making a lot
of money right now, some of the shale
producers, but not the American people.
We don't have a state-owned oil company.
As to your point, Jonathan, I check AAA
every day. Today, $3.63.
We are closer to $4 a gallon than we are
to three. And right now, what you're
hearing out of Iran is that they want to
keep the strait essentially closed.
Right now, equity futures just about
unchanged on the S&amp;P 500 coming up this
hour. We'll catch up with Bob Iger of
Unlimited Funds as risk appetite pulls
back. Marine Corps veteran Robert Walsh
with all eyes on the Strait of Hormuz
and Jordon Rochester of Masuo as markets
grow impatient with mixed messaging. We
begin this hour with our top story. Iran
vowing to keep the Strait of Hormuz
closed sending crude back into triple
digits. Our team coverage starts right
now with Joumana Betseche out of Dubai.
Joumana, good morning. The president's
own words overnight, we have
unparalleled power fire power and
limited ammunition and plenty of time.
Watch what happens to these deranged
scumbags. It's week two. People were
hoping this would go on for days and not
weeks and now we're talking about weeks,
not months.
on the timeline or how long this is
going to take, but what I will say is
we're very much still in the thick of
it. Yesterday, remember on your show we
were reporting about the anticipated
statements coming through from the new
supreme leader Mojtaba Khamenei and that
did come through. I will say it was a
statement that was read out on national
television. It didn't come from him
directly,
but the point was messages of defiance
once again and vowing to keep the Strait
closed, vowing to continue attacking US
bases around the Gulf countries, and
threatening to expand into other areas
as well without giving a lot of details
of what those are those are and also
vowing to avenge the killing of school
children in the early days of the
operations then the joint US Israeli
operations. There was of course an
attack that took place on a school in
Iran. So, those are some of the themes
that came through, but I would say
beyond the rhetoric, the messaging was
quite simply that they are still very
much in charge. The hardliners are in
charge here. And even it was quite
interesting yesterday in his first
comments in a while we heard from the
Israeli Prime Minister and they said
that even though the strikes have
significantly weakened Iran and their
clerical leadership, unlikely at this
point that it's going to guarantee
regime change in the country. So, even
an acknowledgement there that the
hardliners are still really very much in
control of many of these military
decisions. And I will say as we're
speaking now, there's a pro-government
demonstration going on in Tehran. It's
Good Friday, it's the last Friday of
Ramadan. Um people are showing up in
masses, of course, in this very uh
obvious show of support for the
government. So, what we're not seeing is
actually protesters, which is what I
think, you know, the calculus was at the
beginning of these military operations
that perhaps the people of Iran would
use this as an opportunity to rise up.
There are no signs of that happening as
of yet. The second messaging that came
through yesterday from Iran is quite
clearly that they are aware they're
inflicting a lot of damage uh on the
global economy and on the Gulf states.
And the fact that they've reiterated
their plans to keep the Strait of Hormuz
closed means that their calculus from
that perspective isn't going to change
anytime soon. They know they have this
chokehold over the global economy. And
one of the conditions they have set for
coming back to the negotiating table is
to reopen up the Strait of Hormuz, they
need to be sure that US strikes on Iran
will not happen again. This is clearly
not something that the US are
considering at this point in time.
President Trump's saying that he vows to
press on even with oil prices higher.
So, still a lot of daylight between the
two positions.
morning. No doubt we'll catch up a
little bit later. Jumana Bacall out of
there out of Dubai. The view on Wall
Street this morning looks like this. Bob
Elliott of Unlimited Funds writes in,
"Markets appear to be severely
under-discounting the possibility of
2026 ending with much softer growth and
higher inflation." Bob joins us now for
more. Bob, welcome to the program. Think
about what we've repriced through the
week so far. The December oil contract
……（中部抽样）……
has gone from the 60s to the 80s over
largely unreflected in either the bond
start to say, "Hey, we've got to cut
you get some sort of policy shift, or
challenges um that exists when it comes
community, global macro managers,
slowing of economic activity, a 1 to 2%
cut policy if we move to
inflation might be spiking one or two
this gives additional leverage to
Gulf. We'll have to wait.
on the S&amp;P 500. Yesterday, the worst day
officials say there is little capacity
correspondence with those oil prices.
the regime change that he wanted and
Graham and Tom Cotton who are pushing
leader yesterday. The leave of the
they want to get leverage whenever they
off it's going to be. You know, and and
littorals like we have in the in the
operations and not offensive operations
as it goes on and what we're starting to
entrench themselves for a long time. And
looking to avoid day four. Equity
point given the fact that this was the
offside in FX as well.
premarket. And this comes down to the
territory. But, Meta is down in
of London this morning. On our radar,
Russian barrels to hit the market. One
quagmire from a messaging standpoint.
Well obviously the Iranians are allowing
lifting if the sanctions easing didn't
out of the banks. This was Goldman. "Any
bite. That's also when we'll be
more quickly than oil, just once the
elections last year, and so now we're
trips booked out through the spring. I'd
uh and the like. And there are other
that investment slow down as well. A
is it's not easy to bring a lot of more
option, and the Iranians have taken it.
rates.
rally, who knows? It's early days, but
add to inflation fears. Jordan Rochester
for the past two weeks now we've
three weeks. And and time is not on your
seen a big flip of that. But in the
still remains in flux, but what you can
various stages, and we just kept seeing
points of rate cuts priced for this year
to its a full extent and we're still at
on a much, much stronger dollar.
around some of this stuff.
S&amp;P 500 firmer by 2/10 of 1% on the
that that CPI came in actually in line
Brussels and Washington D.C.
You can say the curve is deeply
it goes on, it is a step change in terms
defense secretary later this morning.
open-endedness of a situation like this
estimate of where realized productivity
cause this sort of non-inflationary boom
for the last 18 months and it hasn't
therefore a dearth of intrinsic value in
but it looks like at least another week.
listen, I think you need something
know, just take away the justification
this morning. Nice to have you. Good to
the future.
And they're paying a big price right
despite the difficulty of putting Humpty
down again. This is way more complex
a
going out of consumers' pockets and
exactly what Secretary Wright said in
getting through. How alone is the US
it's that line we've repeated a few
that this week, we saw the market
think that this administration has
support, that has never been a recipe to
it's a real wild card because the fact
month. And then I ask the question to
to that, this is a going to weigh on us.
comparisons to Iraq, uh and any
overnight quick operation to capture
Nasdaq, positive by 0.3. On the Russell,
idea of dollar weakening. Right now,
president just months ago.
to help any oil that is currently in the
Uh, now with oil the first time closing
make images with AI tools and not Adobe.
critical waterway should remain closed.
really for him do or die right now. He
reinforcing the importance of energy
renewable energy projects. You're really
UK.
agenda getting put on the back burner
oil and gas.
halo hard assets, limited obsolescence
things like metals, things like helium,
potential centers of vulnerability, of
load green power. We think this is
biggest volcano is actually here and
anytime soon.
Savannah's this morning, appetite for
Port of Los Angeles, joins us now for
crew is just not an option for the
here to the United States are smooth,
not seeing a drove of cancellations.
risen substantially over this period of
Red Sea at one point shut for about 6
now is a net exporter of energy, we're
Conference here in Southern California
can't get insurance for the vessels or
from? How quickly can a lot of these
new Shah, the excuse me, the new supreme
Good morning. Good morning for our
inflationary momentum heading into what
said, "We would do it if we needed to."
suggest buying the dip. We favor value
expensive. We have been expecting a
investors, uh mutual funds, their cash
all-time highs. What do you think is
profits have been very strong. We've
credit. Are you seeing anything in terms
backdrop leading into the crisis, what
and I wonder if you take a look at oil
know, some of the the commodity complex
seen as as John mentioned at the top
the likes of the other players on Wall
this press briefing held by the defense
what he said about Iranian leadership.
statement on camera. He made a point of
saying he is wounded, even disfigured,
people.
the reality of trade right now, the
an off-ramp, how much do people start to
that Iran's new supreme leader is
different fronts that they have been
massacred.
Once we got a few days in and the
administration do?
trying to achieve it for? And that is
And so, look, the the escorts I don't
uh of thinking outside the box. Uh what
should make a uh war and peace decision
York City this morning. Good morning,
since the war has started. These are all
GDP. That is flat, no change there. And
say this is setting the tone for the
out that the GDP downgrade that came in
Uh I'll get that number I'll I'll get
supposed to be another clear issue. Also
morning.
positioned to manage it. Where the big
through this year. Going into this year
portion of the economy is actually
even 3% for the remainder of 2026?"
inflation and focusing squarely on the
excessively dovish perspective on the
of a commitment can they make to the
reaction function with which with
16.7%
seeing is basically defense aircraft
is wounded
forces and shipping. So, when the
terms of what the ultimate goals are in
which is no surprise and it's energy.
Ulta had been pretty
……（接近结尾）……
Ryan, with that in mind, we spoke to the
Port of LA Executive Director earlier on
this morning who suggested some
companies will just hold. They'll press
pause. They'll stop. Are you seeing the
same thing?
pause. You're trying to make money. Like
that's what business is about. So, uh
there's some of that, but it's always a
a you know, cost-benefit analysis. But
yeah, for example, the price of air
freight from Asia to Europe, you can
still fly there. It's just that the
price has doubled. Uh same with fuel
prices and ocean freight have nearly
doubled the the bunker fuel that the
carriers had to pay. They're passing
that through. There's a huge number of
new surcharges coming in ocean freight.
You got war risk uh surcharges, sort of
insurance premiums, and then fuel.
There's a long list of these things.
It's hard for people to keep track of,
but you can't just pause your business.
That's not how this works.
ahead of any additional potential
increases in oil prices and actually
ordering more? Trying to stockpile their
inventories ahead of an even bigger
disruption.
especially true. Oil price is one thing,
but um the the world is expecting new
tariffs on um March 11th. The US trade
representative introduced announced that
there were 16 new section 301
investigations
to uh effectively these are new forms of
tariffs to replace the IEEPA tariffs.
Under section 301, it you need a
an investigation. It can take several
months. But those 16 investigations
cover 92% of US trading partners by
volume, by import value.
Uh so everybody's expecting tariffs to
go way up from where they are today. And
so there's there's going to be some pull
forward effect on that.
lot of inventory. They were building
inventory and then they worked that down
as they got more comfortable with the
scenario. Are we going back to that
level of inventory build right now?
don't know that people didn't really
learn too many lessons from the
pandemic. Inventory is expensive. Nobody
really wants to have lots of it sitting
around. It's expensive until you need
it. And then you and then you look like
a genius for having plenty of inventory
when your competitors don't, but it's
very costly in the meantime. So
uh the the pandemic sort of was a very
temporary lesson. And by now more or
less companies have gone back to where
they always operate. But yeah, you're
seeing new shocks and that'll cause
probably more temporary behavior
changes. And we'll see what's what's
lasting or what's considered lasting by
the brands and the companies.
the timeline for CEOs to make decisions
is very short. Are you seeing that as
well?
make decisions some some decisions you
need to make very quickly, and the
companies that are really good at making
decisions quickly have an advantage.
Now, um often the best decision is to do
nothing, but still a decision, but you
uh
if you're sitting there not making any
decisions is probably bad news, but uh
responding to very short-term situations
can be dangerous. You saw that a lot
with companies who moved manufacturing
in response to tariffs, and then woke up
and found out, "Oh, we moved our
manufacturing to India. Now India's
tariffs are just as high as China." Uh
and now they've gone back down, and
maybe we should have, you know, so it's
it's really hard to know what's lasting
and what's not. Uh I think having quick
uh decision loops is really important
for businesses.
reality check on the ground. The
flexible CEO, Ryan Peterson there, on
what's happening with trade at the
moment. The price of things, fuel
surcharges, costlier alternatives, it
all adds up pretty quickly.
are watching inflation. I do want to
just emphasize the 0.7% that we got on
GDP growth in the fourth quarter, and it
raises this issue of how strong the
momentum was heading into yet another
shock in the US.
Monday. Chris Varona Strategas,
Francisco Blanch of Bank of America,
Henrietta Treyz of Veda Partners, Les
Thomas of SoFi from New York City. Thank
you very much for choosing Bloomberg TV.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.