TITLE: This Ex-Navy SEAL Built a $5B AI Drone Company for Modern Warfare | WSJ's Bold Names
CHANNEL: WSJ Bold Names
DURATION_S: 1574  DENSITY: brief  REQ summary=2 core=3
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-13T07:00:06+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7F2hp9yX1ZQ
SHA256: df680ba87027d9d5f43a0f0aee5a3340c8045926e1d9133de345ed792f6fc17e

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2015] bit. Shield AI founded in 2015. Before
  [100%] &gt;&gt; 100%
  [1500] on track to build uh 1,500, I think,
  [2035] autonomy in the military of 2035. This
  [2024] Ukraine uh and even before that in 2024
  [1617] you know where we were in 2015 1617
  [200000] in a uh a 200,000 square foot facility
  [850000] be 850,000 square foot manufacturing
  [90%] ubiquitous and like I can do 90% of what

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
The SEAL teams uh is also a life of
suffering and pain uh and torment. I
would absolutely claim like that helped
me as an entrepreneur having gone
through the suffering, gone through the
pain. So, I'm I'm used to it at this
stage in the game.
[laughter]
to Brandon Sang. He's the co-founder of
Shield AI. The startup is making both
hardware and software for the next
generation of warfare, one that puts
autonomous drones on the front lines.
That's next. Brandon, thank you so much
for joining us today here on Bold Names.
I'm excited. There's a lot going on with
AI and defense tech, but first I want to
get into your founding story a little
bit. Shield AI founded in 2015. Before
that, you were a Navy Seal, deployed
twice in Afghanistan, and I'm just
curious, how did that experience shape
your understanding of what technology
could do for warfare?
me. Uh, really excited to chat today.
Um, certainly my deployments in the Navy
informed my perspective,
uh, you know, which I've I've now come
to appreciate having done SHIELD for
almost 11 years now. Um, and and look,
I'll I'll be honest. When I was in the
SEAL teams, when I was operating, I
wasn't really thinking about, hey, how
could I do this mission better? Hey,
what if I could do this? Uh, I had great
I thought at the time I had great
technology. I had great assets. Uh, had
satellite imagery. I had Apache
helicopters, uh, Predator drones, F-18s,
all at my disposal to to accomplish my
missions. Uh, we had Palunteer. And so
when I was actually operating day in day
out, um was very happy uh with the tech
stack that I was using. Um now it wasn't
until I decided, hey, I'm going to leave
the SEAL teams. I'm going to get out of
the Navy. Um and I'm going to go do
something else. And what else could I
do? Um did I start to think about ways
that I could improve what I was doing on
the battlefield. And I would say it was
actually much a a much bigger macro uh
forcing function than anything else at
the end of the day. Um was I uh I asked
I I wanted to be a part of AI and
autonomy. Grew up in the age of the
internet. Saw what that was. Asked
myself what's going to be the next
internet. Decided it was going to be AI.
Decided it was going to be autonomy.
Asked myself what is the role of AI and
autonomy in the military of 2035. This
was back in 2015. decided it should be
powering, commanding, maneuvering every
single military asset under the sun. So,
we started by putting an AI pilot on a
quadcopter to go inside buildings, which
was a a problem that I was very familiar
with.
as having been a SEAL, how does that
kind of shape your mindset as an
entrepreneur? Does it help you? Are do
you are the the lows as low as as other
entrepreneurs or is it just is it easy
compared to what you've been through?
No, look, entrepreneurship is uh it's a
life of suffering. It is I I tell our
investors, I've stared into the abyss so
many times. Uh I tell people, look, it's
awful every single day. And I think
that's hard for people to like
understand or appreciate. It's like, oh
well, you guys are doing so well. You're
multi-billion dollar company. It doesn't
make it any easier. Uh you're solving
the unsolvable problems day in day out.
Um and so it's it's awful. um is what I
what I tell people. Now to your point
the uh the SEAL teams uh is also a life
of suffering and pain uh and torment. Um
and so what I have come to a you know I
I would absolutely claim like that
helped me as an entrepreneur having gone
through the suffering gone through the
pain. So I'm I'm used to it at this
stage in the game.
[laughter]
I I think it's interesting in 2015 when
you would have been starting this
company uh AI right now is the hot hot
big thing obviously in tech uh but a
decade ago autonomy for the physical
world was really the big bubble at the
time especially when it came to cars and
so it would have been natural that you
would been thinking about well how can
you deploy that in in other realms but
I'm not sure that there was as much
enthusiasm for defense tech at that
point so I'm curious about that first
product, the Nova, as you started to
talk about it, it was a it was about a
large pizza size diameter uh drone with
uh four propellers. What was it designed
to do?
pizza. Um
in the eye of the beholder, I think.
was a it was a small quadcopter that
would uh go inside buildings ahead of
special operations forces, ahead of
infantry forces uh to map out these
areas and find threats. Uh the video
feed and a map would be fed back to an
operator on a tablet device or a cell
phone um and they would actually see
little red dots on the map of where
people threats were inside these
buildings. That was used uh on a number
of different operations. I couldn't be
more proud of the product. Amazing
product. Uh very you know to to your
point like it was a interesting time in
the defense tech world. The defense
community I don't think knew what was
going on yet. Uh and interestingly that
was you know investors talk a lot about
product market fit. Um where oftent
times I would claim entrepreneurs they
can't actually build a great product.
The market's not the problem. In this
case we had this amazing product net
promoter score greater than 70. uh
operating in a really awful market which
was the military small drone market at
the time.
clear clear yet what the case for this
technology was. Right. I mean it seems
obvious now but I I guess I'm wondering
if you think back to your days in the
battlefield. What would having that Nova
had been like for you? What uh I mean if
you had that in your toolkit would how
do you think you would have been using
it?
is the most dangerous operation that any
uh war fighter can conduct. Um you're
talking about gun battles at ranges of,
you know, less than 5 m uh less than 3
mters uh in some circumstances. Um and
so it looks really cool. I tell people
like look, it looks really cool in the
movies when you see it being done in any
action movie, but uh terrifying in real
life um if you actually have to
experience gunfire at super close range.
And so the Nova quadcopter, special
operations forces, they'd fly it in,
it'd go inside the building, start
mapping it out ahead. Um, and you
dramatically reduce the risk to your
forces. You reduce the risk to your
partner forces. You know what's going
on, uh, be, you know, inside the area
that you're operating, which allows you
to make the best decisions possible.
Let's fast forward a little bit to
today, just kind of on where the
industry's at. a little bit of a
struggle selling the business it in the
early days, but now I I have to imagine
the mood has changed dramatically.
Hundreds of billions of dollars have
been invested into defense tech uh in
the last few years. I'd note that a year
ago you raised $240 million and
Bloomberg is now reporting that you're
in talks to raise something like a
billion dollars in funding at a 12
billion valuation. I don't know if you
want to talk about that, but I I'm
curious, you know, how things are
different now when you talk to investors
from the early days to now. What is that
level of enthusiasm like um that you're
you're feeling or you're hearing?
about what may or may not be happening
right now regarding active fundraisers,
but um what I'll tell you is it it's
night and day difference. Um and so back
in 2015 when we were raising uh went up
to Silicon Valley went 30 for 30 nos. Um
and every single one of those brutal
brutal hurt and it's just it's a really
tough thing to go through. Uh and look
it was hey guys uh really noble mission
but everybody knows you don't do
defense. Like you don't build a business
in defense tech. That was the or in in
……（中部抽样）……
the defense field. They're like the
government's a horrible customer. And so
um you know fast forward to where we are
today and it is a world of difference
where uh yes you have investors uh you
know reaching out trying to figure out
how to get involved with shield AI very
interested in this space.
that that the conventional wisdom is you
didn't want to get into defense tech was
there's these huge players already that
are already attached to the Pentagon.
It's bure bureaucratic. there's a very
difficult uh kind of contracting uh
process very hard to be the new guy to
get into there was one of the issues
right
been fighting wars in a certain way for
the last few generations right which I
think brings us to the Ukraine situation
which has helped kind of prove the point
that there are new ways to fight the
battles right Ukraine has really become
more than a testing
uh for cutting edge drone warfare. Um it
has become kind of the way war has is
being fought and probably going to be
fought into the future. How how is
Shield AI involved in the in Ukraine?
pro actually two of our products. VBAT
is our aircraft. It is uh
describe how big this thing is.
around like nine feet tall. uh 10 foot
wingspan. Actually, I'll just This is a
This is a model of it right here. So, it
uh takes off vertically uh transitions
to horizontal flight um and then we'll
fly very very long distances looking for
targets. It is the exact same mission
that a Predator or Reaper drone does. We
just do it in a smaller footprint for a
fraction of the price. And so what we
have been doing in Ukraine is we've been
launching from the battlefield from all
these different spots. We're very highly
mobile. We fit in the back of a truck.
Hivemines's on board which is our AI
pilot that
controls the physical aspect of this
drone. Yep. And it's enabling it to
operate while GPS and communications is
jammed. And this is perhaps you know
drone warfare gets talked a lot about in
Ukraine. Certainly there have been
pieces that have talked about the
electronic warfare side of things, but
the electronic warfare in uh the Russia
Ukraine conflict is absolutely brutal.
are using technology to block that
signal. So then a drone that depends
upon GPS then doesn't know where it is
in the world and it's it can't fly
around and do it stuff, right? So you've
figured out a way around that. What is
that way?
top. It's not just drones. It is
missiles. It is rockets. We have GPS
guided rockets. We have GPSG guided
missiles. We have GPSG guided bombs. And
so you're talking about an arsenal that
has been built on the backbone of this
GPS technology that has now become
largely obsolete on the battlefield
because of this jamming. Um, and so the
way that Shield AI solves it is our AI
pilot, which is the easiest way to think
about an AI pilot is self-driving
technology for unmanned systems. what
Tesla is doing uh where they've got uh
you know their self-driving car with a
bunch of cameras and it's building a map
of the world. That car is localizing
itself using the map that it has built
uh versus being wholly reliant on GPS.
We're doing the exact same thing. We're
using the sensors on board these drones
to build a map of the world and we
localize ourselves off of the map that
we have built. Um, and that is how we
get through this GPS jamming problem,
this communications jamming problem
where our systems can operate
independent uh of those two
technologies.
lot of US drone makers have struggled in
Ukraine because of this issue.
invested in this technology for the past
10 and a half years. And because of
those investments, we find ourselves
alone in terms of what we are able to do
on the battlefield. So last year
actually you know last year yeah in
Ukraine uh and even before that in 2024
we were operating while GPS and
communications is jammed. We were
finding targets hundreds of kilometers
away from the Ford line of troops
further than the Ukrainians have ever
been and were able to target and destroy
those Russian assets. So you're in
Ukraine another another spot you're in.
uh you got some attention recently. The
US Coast Guard has credited your drones,
particularly the VBAT, uh for more than
$1 billion in narcotic seizures last
year alone. Uh is this how you kind of
imagined your drones might be used as
well?
you need and again understand a lot of
people might not necessarily be super
familiar with military operations, but
intelligence was driving every single
one of my SEAL operations every single
time. I just wanted more intel, more
intel, more intel because I could start
to build target packages around that.
You can never have enough intel. And so
that's what our systems, the VBAT system
is doing at the end of the day. It's
providing an intelligence picture that
allows people to make the best decisions
possible. It's like again, it's knowing
what your adversary is doing all the
time. And so, and look, there's a
layered intelligence picture from
satellites on down to aircraft like our
VBATs. Uh, and we play a critical role
in that intelligence picture. But
absolutely like when I think about uh
border security, maritime domain
awareness, what we've been doing in the
Caribbean Sea with the US Coast Guard,
100% like in our in our Bailey wick in
terms of what we've been doing and also
a lot of European countries, the
European border security agency Frontex
has been a customer of Shield AI. When
we work with countries like Greece, not
only do they care about their eastern
border with Turkey, but they're very
concerned uh about uh you know
immigration and having maritime domain
awareness coming from their southern uh
maritime border. Um it is
absolutely like something that shield AI
focuses on.
announced a major increase in defense
spending to around trillion dollars. Uh,
Army Secretary Dan Driscoll has talked
about embracing quote startup culture
end quote within the military. Uh, you
have have been in the military, you have
been working uh to try to make the
military a client for many years. Have
you noticed a change in that culture in
the past year? And if so, what is how is
……（接近结尾）……
of building 1500, build 800 F-35s, build
400, whatever that number is. It's an
incredible capability. And look, you're
seeing it play out right now where these
drones are t there's they're taking on
more and more of these missions. They're
not taking every single mission yet. And
so I want to be very very like careful
and saying and like people say like,
"Oh, Brandon wants to get rid of every
single expensive thing." Not true
whatsoever. But you're going to start to
see um these systems just more and more
capable. And I would actually equate it
to and you're going to see the
proliferation of them more and more.
It's no different than what has happened
in the compute industry where we started
off with desktops then we moved to
laptops and now mobile phones are
ubiquitous and like I can do 90% of what
I need to on my mobile phone uh versus a
laptop. Um doesn't mean I still have a
laptop. I still use it but like um
mobile phones much more ubiquitous and
in in often cases you know a little bit
cheaper than the you know a high-end
laptop or a high-end desktop computer
that is uh you can think of as our
fighter jets or you know uh aircraft
carriers as those desktops and laptops
you can think of unmanned systems as
mobile phones and they will become
ubiquitous just like mobile phones.
Well, I think that ubiquity uh of
drones, I think, scares some people,
especially as they look at what's
happened in the Ukraine conflict and
what that means for the US and potential
um hostilities that it might see in the
future. There's a lot of concern about
the US and China's relationship in the
near term or in the medium term. Um how
do you see drones playing into that? uh
and and to what extent uh is this uh
kind of need to build up for uh
preparation for whatever might be
coming.
been our conventional deterrence
mechanisms? They've been our aircraft
carriers. They've been our fighter jets.
They have those have deterred our
adversaries from doing things when when
you see a country start to get
belligerent. What do we do? We park an
aircraft carrier, you know, 15 miles off
the coast and we say, "Hey, you know,
just so you're tracking, uh, we've got,
you know, this thing full of 80 F-18s."
Um, and and again, I am a diehard
believer in peace through strength. I
absolutely believe um in uh, you know,
speak softly but carry a big stick. And
that's what building up, you know, this
technology, this these forms of drones
is really all about at the end of the
day. Um, if you're not leading in this
space, uh, then you are, uh, then you
are at risk of not being able to deter
countries. Uh, you are at risk at losing
the, uh, the the rules-based order that
the United States has helped establish
over the past 70 years. And so I just
think it's so important that the US
military, that the United States of
America leads with AI, leads with
drones. Um, as we move forward, uh, over
the next, you know, 25 years.
started. Uh, we talked about your time
in Afghanistan and how that led you to
design the drones that are part of
Shield AI's arsenal today. I I'm curious
as you look at some of the conflicts
that we're seeing today,
how is that shaping kind of the
evolution of the defense tech that
you're working on uh for the next uh
wave?
game, right? Um when we uh do something
with our AI pilot that enables to work,
then you'll see them adapt their
electronic warfare tactics on the
battlefield. Um and so you have to be
constantly involved and again at the end
of the day what I think's happening what
we're seeing is you are seeing these
systems uh move towards uh more AI
pilots so that they can operate in large
teams they can operate when GPS and
communications are jammed. Those are and
that is about an underlying principle of
warfare which is mass and maneuver. Like
if you're able to maneuver your mass
more effectively than the adversary,
you're going to win more battles. you
are going to win more wars. Um, and AI
enables the maneuver of mass at scales
and speeds that are unprecedented uh in
human history.
us today. I think this was a great
conversation.