TITLE: Legendary Hacker Matt Suiche on Cyberwar in the Age of AI | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 2944  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-12T14:44:37+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rEEGzt01wts
SHA256: 53bb961e9404069f97fe005e39eb8a2f731ecd3d4e93350f8a218bf5e02a026d

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [20000] $20,000 and create more chaos that you
  [2000] late '90s or early 2000s, maybe even
  [2012] 2012. They were just mostly like using a
  [2026] starting out now in 2026 versus I guess
  [2017] not that early. I think it was like 2017

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
radio, news.
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway.
prepper tendencies.
everything when everything goes bad is
to bring my family over to your place.
So I'm relying on you actually.
I've been building an extra store of
supplies.
of things my kids like to eat and stuff
like that just so that we're
Okay. Well, one of the things I saw on a
bunch of the prepper boards that I
sometimes look at. I don't want people
to think that I'm crazy about it, but I
find it interesting. I I find it
interesting seeing how people's like
insecurities manifest in physical stuff,
but anyway.
One of the things everyone was saying
was you need to start taking cash out
because of the situation in Iran because
we're all expecting a big cyber attack
that's going to absolutely destroy the
US financial infrastructure.
a business of like I've looked at
prepper meals like prepared meals and
they all look terrible. Like a slightly
high-end version for yuppies, I think
would be really good. Like something
that you know, like some nice uh
how good you can actually get like dry
food.
days. Anyway, let's let's talk about the
actual issue at hand. Yeah, well, are
you taking cash out?
I'm relying on my store of gold and
silver. That's right. But I think this
raises a legitimate and actually very
interesting topic, which is what do we
know about Iran's cyber, I guess,
facilities, skills, what could happen in
this context, and then also
everything that's going on with the
world of AI, right? Like, cybersecurity,
cyber hacking,
it's changing really rapidly given this
new technology.
context of the war itself, setting aside
hypothetical doom scenarios, there's a
really interesting report in the
Financial Times about Israel having been
able to hack into all of the traffic
lights in Tehran. Almost unbelievable
and shocking, but there's already within
the war itself, or even over the last
couple of years, there was the Pager
attack that Israel had executed. And so,
yes, cyber is part of it, and the timing
is wild here because speaking of AI, it
was just on Friday, we're recording this
March 5th, I'm not exactly sure the date
it's coming out, but a week ago,
basically, there was the news, the
complete collapse of the Anthropic
relationship with the Department of
Defense or the Department of War. And
so, it's all in the mix right now, and
how is AI actually going to change
warfare, and what are the national
security implications of AI, and AI and
hacking, there is a lot in this sort of
mix that's all happening right now.
my eye was the story about a hacker
using Claude to hack into like the
Mexican government system. Did you see
that?
the hacker extracted a bunch of
information from Claude itself. You
know, I'm pretty sure you cannot go to
Claude code and say like I want to break
into the Mexican government website,
help me like build this app. It won't do
that, it's trained to avoid malicious
uses, but people find a way to jailbreak
them, people find a way to sort of
extract information from the AI itself
that has in its training and so forth.
And [snorts] there's been examples of
leaks where, you know, people upload
data to the AI and somehow other people
see it. Anyway, there's a lot here that
we have to learn more about.
do, in fact, have the perfect guest.
Someone who's been on the podcast
before, but it's been a while. We're
going to be speaking with Matt Swish. He
is the founder of OEDB, which is a data
infrastructure startup for agentic AI.
So, honestly, the perfect person
said that first. Matt, thank you so much
for coming back on All Thoughts.
now. I think it's been what, 4 years?
still in Dubai, and now you're coming to
us from Sweden in a very
Gustavian-looking background over there.
it's right after Russia's invasion of
Ukraine. So, I guess yeah, wow, that has
been almost 4 years now.
cyber espionage, cyber security,
hacking, and so forth, it's a natural
natural time.
listen to the episode 4 years ago, can
you just give some context around who
you actually are and your sort of
history in the hacking community,
including, you know, Shadow Brokers and
the WannaCry era and all that stuff?
almost like 20 years, particularly cyber
security.
And uh my name appeared in a
few of the different leaks because of
various analysis that I have done of
like private information that was being
leaked, but also a lot of attacks that
happened that happened to target
critical infrastructure over the last 10
years.
And last time we were on the podcast, uh
one of the thing we talked about is
does cyber uh really matter once you
enter into a kinetic war, which is
exactly what's happening now.
And the main takeaway was once you start
using missiles, most of these cyber
elements are not really relevant because
you would use cyber mostly to gather
information and intelligence
an enemy, you create confusion. But as
we have seen now,
you can use like drones that are like
$20,000 and create more chaos that you
would do with any sort of exploits.
as a legendary hacker, and then you're
like, "Oh, I've been 20 years in
enterprise software." I feel like this
is like the the Winnie the Pooh meme is
like, you know, the casual and then
fancy dress up.
enterprise software. But, this is a
really interesting point that you made.
This idea between, okay, mostly it
sounds like when people imagine cyber
attacks, they imagine what Tracy talked
about in the beginning. Suddenly, the
entire financial infrastructure like it
just come to a halt. People worried
about or there's going to be a blackout,
etc. But, in reality or what we've seen
so far by and large is that cyber in the
context of war is still much more about
data collection, espionage, and so forth
rather than these more like, you know,
the types of things you might see in a
movie.
like 10 15 years, we have seen some like
attacks like cyber attacks against a
critical infrastructure.
Iran targeted like Aramco around like
2012. They were just mostly like using a
what we call a wiper that was like a
malware that was erasing the hard drive
of most of the machines.
And then we obviously have the case of
Stuxnet few years before where it was a
joint Israeli-US operation against some
of the nuclear centrals in Iran where
some of the PLCs were targeted.
But, what we have seen over the weekend
is some of the drones happened to target
some of the Amazon data centers.
because multiple of the zones have been
down and I think two out of three and
the third one is still recovering days
after.
Because most of companies, either
private companies or public companies,
are relying on the cloud, which is
something that was not really the case
before.
And once you have some sort of
centralization
in terms of dependence, you also become
an easy target. And most of
governments, AI companies, cloud
companies do not really have
$20,000 drones in their threat models,
which is like something that's pretty
new, but also confirms that
kinetic walls can have more impact.
perhaps more useful before a war when it
comes to info gathering and things like
that. But we have seen some deployment
of cyber attacks in the past week or so.
So, we know Israel is attacking some
cyber infrastructure in Iran, and we
know that Iran has
perhaps attempted some things, maybe not
as successfully. But walk us through
what we've actually seen so far.
operation where one of the prayer app
has been hijacked and some message was
sent to the users. So, it's more like to
create confusion within people.
understand the position of some of the
target, but it's more used for like
reconning.
And in terms of destruction, we didn't
see anything significant. Even the
government itself of Iran shut down most
of the internet
for a lot of the users. And a lot of
what we see on social media is the usual
disinformation and misinformation
campaign, especially now with AI,
……（中部抽样）……
there's so much AI slop with like the
really like really impactful. So, like
where
is pretty like a first, I would say, in
they're quote monitoring the situation,
inundated with contextless garbage and
topics seriously and doesn't just sort
How do you actually know what's real and
there's so much of it, so
looking at the actual damage. Many
exactly like people used to do with
institutions,
available,
giving their quote and quote like
threat of Iran for around 40 years.
happened last weekend, many people were
because that's not cyber really. I mean,
was that? I sort of would assume that
can be run from numerous other clouds.
due to the attack on data centers. How
like think about hardening these data
I think one of
drone is on $20,000 and they managed to
from Amazon
explicitly said they were drone strikes.
because in a data center, you are taking
even if you take the cost of most of
if you are really aiming at destructing
really efficient. So, you really enter
material and have way more impact than
the day, it does not really matter.
recruit like a 20-year-old such as
then, you know, we had the boom in
more competition from private companies
companies like Anthropic and ChatGPT and
capacity has actually shifted.
when we started to see more about the
surveillance, global surveillance,
being leaked that belongs to uh the
recently, there was a contractor from
zero-day exploits to a Russian broker.
of integrator. So, we see like
they also keep being burned by insiders.
War, and you're thinking about
the drama that's going on there. How are
they cannot really develop uh as many
that it had been used in the Maduro
their ethical like
decisions.
state where it can be used for like
we start to see it now for like
opinion about it.
can't just go to Claude Code and say
some very talented people who pride
[clears throat] So, do you have a sense
get out of these tools?
even Anthropic published an article
And I think even recently they released
code uh
towards a zero. So if you're a company
software for security reasons is going
when it
to allocate budget
engineers to build the software and then
But security is a risk is usually like
Maybe in a year from now it's going to
to see how it's going to like do like
the the cost of building software is
obviously there's the argument that well
you're a big corporation or presumably a
some of the security concerns, given
software business in-house.
software cost like collapsing,
work on DB, the current startup uh
something to to transact or like to take
designed to think autonomously, you need
itself, if you just build it, is pretty
is the context they take decision on.
can just rewrite an MRI software in one
the end of this year. I think the only
people are mostly like still playing
agent like
being replaced for their jobs,
seen some disruption around like
uh development with shorter like
actually is
doing a bunch of calls to like Anthropic
searches.
piece of software that's running as a
another service or like software.
aspects of AI agents is that they can
didn't work. I'm going to try It's going
information, etc."
do. And if it accidentally deletes a
security standpoint
deleting a bunch of information. Is this
the same. It's the same It's sort of
hand with the ability to create a wrong
destroy on its own. Is this sort of like
sense of
It never ends. Like security must be
people do something agentic,
an enterprise, as you can imagine, if
gave it access to, it will happen. So,
architectures or like those like agents.
have seen
security for the last 20 years,
especially in enterprise, like pushing
cannot just give like full access to
long time at this point. Can you
starting out now in 2026 versus I guess
like what has changed is
the global surveillance program was
and pushed back and people really cared
privacy.
government
our like safety like chart."
In term of software, obviously, like now
adequate software phase where
haven't seen like
feels like a lot of it is very different
national security.
makes it faster.
before, but there's so much noise and so
So you must think that it's going to be
on your website right now. It looks
it's going and that there will actually
anything that's agentic, building
of building software is going to uh
a pretty big use case right there
they didn't write like code since
lot. But if software is going to zero,
timeless in the AI economy.
payments and stablecoin that you can use
or like OpenAI just scrapping internet
least you can
Because I think a lot of the traditional
are going to be like disrupted a lot.
would just be ready to pay like more to
to is going to be
infrastructure layer, you can have this
actually secure. Because
it's like people just like living in
going to look very different and they
coding forest is that one of the
whatever.
API. And then you have to like go to a
an API key, and then you copy and paste
oh, you know, like let me just pay you
But it also occurs to me, and this is
and the agent is going out and scraping
whether the direction of the internet
so that the data then arrives in some
really good points. We we need to talk
having to deal with all these API keys,
case you're describing now is like
of having to go like everywhere
for the data providers. Because if you
the model itself for information, but as
second level is the agent like Claude
them looking on the internet.
you would have like those API keys and
information, usually the one that's
can only
of like SaaS platform are just like some
directly.
million subscriptions left and right uh
marketplace, but the integration now is
or those tools, they make you install
like you just said,
natural interface for like agents, even
to do it or ABC." Just do that. So, I
it's just like it becomes too
one of the things that happened in the
still existed. What was that called
like experimental lab. Anyway, they
language. But like they clearly
could we have a situation where the
system that becomes very, very difficult
……（接近结尾）……
mark because there's so many other
components like the energy sector, you
know, like how is it We have seen the
price of like memory like increasing
like a lot. So like now [laughter]
now if they're starting to block like
the Detroit of almost, you know, like
like what's going to happen to like the
cost of data centers and like memory and
AI in general, you know, like we are
going towards on one side, you know, we
are going towards like the cost of
tokens and inference going down, but
that may also like bring the cost up,
you know, so if you're going to use like
AI for like your next generation wars,
but if your enemy can just like increase
your cost of token and inference, what
does that even mean? Like do you even
need AI in the first place? Is it even
relevant? There's also the I think
there's this all like asymmetric like
warfare that's going to happen that we
really haven't seen yet and I think
that's going to be like really
interesting, but at the same time
there's so much noise and so much
so many things happening at once that
it's becoming like extremely like hard
to focus and just like extract like
what's really relevant.
tough choices potentially coming for
Havelock as your your token costs go up.
Matt, it was so wonderful to reconnect
again. Thank you so much for coming back
have to get back to Joe about those
APIs.
Twitter now.
[laughter]
much is happening right now at this
particular Nexus, especially obviously
the Anthropic stuff, but I you know,
it's interesting, you know, you think
about cyber warfare and you think about
okay, we're going to hack into a system
and take out critical infrastructure,
but another thing you can do is just
attack a data center directly.
that was really interesting. That sort
of like, we got very used to thinking
about cyber as like this thing that
exists only in in code. But now you have
this like new front of kinetic warfare
where the two like really intersect.
like huge national security
vulnerabilities. And he he pointed out,
I mean certainly today, but you know,
was this in anyone's threat model
thinking about the risks to it, you
know, the cheapness of drones, the
ability to take them out. Super
interesting. Also just this idea like,
yes, you know, obviously again as your
observation. The point we think of like
cyber attacks like we're going to take
out this whole thing, right? But in
least in the warfare context, his point
like most of it is like before the war
etc. The sort of information gathering
spy spy craft and so forth prior to the
actual the actual attacks.
particular use some cyber attacks as a
sort of sower of chaos in Iran. I can't
imagine what it's like to actually be on
the ground there at the moment for many
reasons, but like you imagine just being
there worried about your physical safety
and then the traffic lights aren't
working as well.
like, wait, there's cameras everywhere
or there you know, like how much is
being recorded like create like a sense
of like paranoia among everyone about
about everything.
obviously this is very topical in
markets, but the SAS apocalypse idea.
Matt in particular [clears throat]
seemed pretty bearish on the outlook for
um
existing software companies, I guess.
And I did think his comments about what
that would mean for security budgets
within organizations were pretty
relevant and worrying.
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway.
me at The Stalwart. Follow our guest
Matt Sweish she's at M Sweish. Follow
our producers Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen
Arman, Dasha Bennett at Dashbot, and
Caleb Brooks at Caleb Brooks. And for
more Odd Lots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odd lots for the daily
newsletter and all of our episodes. And
you can chat about all of these topics
24/7 in our discord, discord.gg/odd
lots.
it when we talk about [music] the
intersection of kinetic and cyber
warfare, then please leave us a positive
review on your favorite podcast
platform. [music]
And remember, if you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely ad-free. All you
need [music] to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcasts and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.