TITLE: Mideast Expert Bernard Haykel on Three Futures for Iran After the Strikes |  The Mishal Husain Show
CHANNEL: The Mishal Husain Show
DURATION_S: 2137  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-06T06:09:25+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yIo2tU2fSC4
SHA256: a4218db7a9168de9fe090ac9c0f089a79c0d6c4e281f47759b81871321175939

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [20%] still has [music] at least 20% of the
  [1979] Ayatollah Khomeini set up in 1979
  [50%] only about 50% Persian by ethnicity. So,
  [1970] awareness in the 1970s when you had the
  [2030] midst of this big Vision 2030
  [15%] about 15% of the the population in the
  [2023] March of 2023 with the help of the
  [2015] acceded to the throne in 2015, Muhammad
  [2017] 2017 when a prominent Shiite cleric in
  [2019] this in September 2019 when the
  [1973] two major oil crises of 1973 and 1979.
  [3000] a thousand of the 3,000 that are in

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
This is not a war that has been thought
that the Iranian regime still has a
capacity to really cause a tremendous
amount of chaos in the Gulf. Bernard
Haykel, a Middle [music] East expert
who's following events in Iran and is in
regular contact with Saudi Arabia's
Crown Prince. Can I ask you which of
those scenarios you think is the most
likely?
That this is a very tough regime that
still has [music] at least 20% of the
population on side and is willing to
kill to remain in power. And I think
what MBS will be doing now is telling
in Iran.
From Bloomberg Weekend, this is the
If, like me, you've been watching events
in the Middle East this week, there has
been so much to take in.
The strikes by Israel and the United
States are of a different order to what
we saw last year. In Iran, the
authorities say hundreds of people have
been killed. And Iran's retaliation has
seen targets struck in many countries:
Qatar, Bahrain, the United Arab
Emirates, Oman, Saudi Arabia. Which
makes this a wide conflict, a complex
picture, one that could have
consequences for even years to come.
And so obviously, we wanted to talk
about it to try at least to make sense
not only of what's happening now, but
where it's all heading. And that's when
I thought of Professor Bernard Haykel,
who has studied the Middle East for
decades. He's Professor of Near Eastern
Studies at Princeton University and
someone who looks at the politics of the
region with knowledge of its history,
its religions, culture, social change.
He has a deep understanding of Iran and
a particular insight into Saudi Arabia,
the biggest country in the region,
because he talks and WhatsApps regularly
with its powerful Crown Prince, Mohammed
bin Salman. Now, right at the end of
this, we get to Bernard Haykel's own
personal connection with the countries
he writes about, but I hope you get from
the conversation what I did, some
clarity at a turbulent time.
Tell me first of all, Professor Haykel,
what it was like when you heard the news
last Saturday that the US and Israel had
begun striking Iran. What were the first
thoughts that went through your mind? I
wasn't surprised that this attack
happened. I was only surprised by how
soon it did given that they were still
negotiating, the Iranians were
negotiating with the Americans. But, you
know, word among the leaders in the Gulf
states, people like the Crown Prince of
Saudi Arabia, was that Israel would
sooner or later attack because Iran is
at its weakest. They had knocked out
most of its, if not all of its, air
defenses last June,
and that this was an opportunity to
really destroy and defeat the system
itself and to topple the regime. The
surprise was more to do with timing, and
also the fact that the Americans were
all in on this, because it was primarily
an Israeli
decision to to attack, I think. Were you
surprised though by how fast it spread
to other countries? That because of the
Iranian retaliation, we soon had all
these other countries in the region
which found that they were being struck.
Yes. Only in as much as the Iranian
regime felt existentially threatened.
The Iranians have been saying this, by
the way, to all the leaders in the Arab
world that if they are existentially
threatened, that they will attack
broadly and widely and try to
disrupt oil shipments and gas shipments,
and they would do exactly what has
happened and what is still happening. I
also knew that within the regime in Iran
that there were sort of two factions. uh
One faction basically said that the
response to the killing of Qassem
Soleimani by President Trump in the
first term, this is the head of the Quds
Force of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard
Corps. And then later the 12-day war of
last year that the response of the
Iranians was very muted and that that
basically had encouraged the Israelis
and the Americans to feel that they were
undeterred and that they would attack
again. So, the other faction in Iran
that's more, say, forward-leaning or
more aggressive said, you know, this
time if they attack us, we're really
going to have to respond. Otherwise, we
have no deterrence whatsoever. Or maybe
also it's almost a question of
reputation and there's something perhaps
almost, you know, primeval that comes
out of like you just do want to show
that you've got it in you to fight back.
Yes, and also I think that within Iran
itself, the longer-range ballistic
missiles had been very seriously
destroyed by the Israelis in the 12-day
war of last June.
The Iranians now have a much larger
arsenal of short-range missiles and
drones that hadn't been damaged. So,
that's why you're seeing so many more
missiles going at the UAE and at Bahrain
and Kuwait and Qatar and Saudi Arabia
because that's the arsenal that the
Iranians actually still have relatively
speaking large numbers of. Before we
dive deeper into many facets of what
you've set out, Bernard, I want to ask
about how you see a moment like this
with your knowledge and expertise
because you've studied history, you've
studied Islam. So, when you see the
news, are you always using that longer
lens, that looking back in time, putting
it in that kind of context? I mean, yes,
these are modern states and their their
ideologies, including the the Iranian
state, you know, it's ideology draws on
a particular cherry-picked version of
Islam, but it's a modern state and it's
a modern ideology. And I see the Middle
East as
riven or divided between two groups or
two ideologies, two ways of looking at
the world. So, you have the status quo
powers. Those are powers that basically
want to develop their countries and they
want peace and stability to economically
advance and they include Saudi Arabia,
Egypt, Jordan, also the UAE despite what
they're doing in Sudan and and Yemen.
And then you have this other group that
is revisionist. I would call them
revisionist in the sense that they want
to redraw the map of the Middle East.
They want to change the power dynamics
in the Middle East and they include,
surprisingly, both Iran and the Israeli
right-wing. And the Iranians want to see
Israel destroyed. They want to see
America thrown out of the region
militarily as well as its economic and
political
and cultural influence. And the Israelis
also at the right-wing in Israel also
wants to reshape and reimagine the
Middle East according to its own
political agenda. And and so what we're
seeing today is um
one of the revisionist powers, that is
the Israelis, attempting to do just
that, to destroy uh the Iranian regime
and to see either something replace it
or chaos for that matter. And that's a
real fear of mine is that if you end up
with a failed state in Iran with 92
million people, you could end up with a
catastrophic situation for Iranians and
for the neighbors. It's interesting to
me that you do call Iran a modern state
because in so many ways its structure,
the theocracy, the fact that it has
well, had in the form of Ali Khamenei,
the supreme leader and Ayatollah at the
top of the pyramid. Should we not see it
as a theocracy? Should we see it as a
modern nation-state in which the
leadership are called names other than
what we're used to. So, it is a
theocracy in as much as you have a
cleric who, you you know, heads it. Uh
now, a dead cleric in in Khamenei, and
before him Khomeini. But, if you look at
the ideology of Iran, of the state, you
see it's a combination of different
different strands. So, you have
anti-imperialism, you have
anti-colonialism, these are modern
ideologies. You have social justice
ideas from communism and Marxism, those
are modern, as well. But, you also have
elements of pre-modern medieval
theology, as well, that are
repackaged in a modern guise. And then,
……（中部抽样）……
you also have Iranian nationalism, which
of a hybrid regime in Iran in its
Muslim Brotherhood, is a combination of
ideologies. Let's dig in then to the
to Iran. I think for most people, what
it doesn't survive, then most people
the prospect that the state could fail
what we're seeing today. So, the regime
revisionist power and the theocracy that
control and a cleric as a supreme
the regime stays, but you have a new
to cut deals with the Trump
regime but reformed. And the third
that case, you could end up with a civil
only about 50% Persian by ethnicity. So,
they could be armed by outside powers
state. And that would spell a disaster
with a super talented population and has
be catastrophic.
this regime will survive. That this is a
is willing to kill to remain in power.
January. The regime was willing to kill
to easily disappear. It has deep roots
its problems. It has delivered on basic
infrastructure. Um so, I I don't see it
regime. And I the Israelis probably
survival of the regime and the possible
was this war for? Yeah, I don't think
have thought through the scenarios for
thinking it would be a very quick and
come to a Venezuela like accommodation
initial attack that killed Ayatollah
potential leaders who they were hoping
war that has been thought through at
cause a tremendous amount of chaos in
insure a ship going through there and
going to see a lot of chaos if this war
seeing in a number of countries, India,
publicly mourning the Ayatollah. Now,
understand it?
Islam and the doctrine itself is called
distinctive modern doctrine that
Shiites in the world and they represent
They don't see it as as legitimate. But
the leadership of the regime if even
the Shia lamentation and response to
than theological. It is then directly
spiritual leader. Yeah, it is more of a
people who see Iran as a country that is
have tremendous sympathy for Iran.
leftists for instance who will feel very
talk then about Saudi Arabia and
bin Salman. You've got a forthcoming
basis.
Mohammed bin Salman wanted to happen
for these strikes on Iran?
over the last two or three years. And
He does not want Israel to attack Iran.
detente agreement that was signed in
Saudi Arabia and Iran and resumed visas
time. That's right. I mean the regime in
Saudi Arabia and the rulers in Saudi
Khomeini used very abusive terms when
Najd being the central province of Saudi
tension and initially when King Salman,
bin Salman, he's known as MBS in the
Hitler and said that, you know, we'll
rhetoric and then tried to reestablish
2017 when a prominent Shiite cleric in
promoting revolution to the regime,
short-range missiles that they can do a
installations like desalination plants,
he has no effective way of blocking that
this in September 2019 when the
separation facility in uh Saudi Arabia
production. So he's very wary and and
Washington Post article saying that MBS
people familiar with the matter said
advocating a US attack. I mean, the
true? Yeah, he did call Trump several
having said that
are existentially threatened that they
him, he would have to defend himself and
likely to happen. You're going to see
Israel. He is a nationalist. MBS is a
country against these attacks because
major oil refinery has been attacked and
vis-a-vis Iran. That would be another
Iranians don't stop soon and if this war
states involved in defending themselves.
his his vital installations and you
Riyadh with 7-8 million people that
fresh water and if those plants are
cities.
Uh and that is why he was against this
I'm imagining the conversations between
benefit from a weakened Iran? I know you
would he have been tempted by that
regime. Uh there's a long history of
has no state or a failed state and that
country like Saudi Arabia is radically
States shares more with Saudi than it
neighbors.
Arabia. Whereas Israel is a thousand
Uh so you have very a very different
uh out of necessity. I mean, this is not
what MBS will be doing now is telling
President Trump from being part of this
Trump has said, he seems to admire
mean, it is very true that uh Prime
that this war should be waged by the
President Trump came to political
He sees the Arab sheikhs as the richest
saw in the 1970s with characters like
of the arms dealer, one
massive transfer of wealth from uh
Arabia became, you know, the one of the
President Trump. And I think he sees the
United States. He doesn't see them as
but rather as um sort of cash cows, if
American economy.
um
very kind of well-connected Saudi told
would have to like him. So, the view of
good relationship with the president.
ambassador in Riyadh, should be a
they have to get along with the US
US, and their culture is oriented
Trump, and I think that my sense when
last year of the Biden administration
MBS had great appreciation for the
Saudi Arabia. President Biden in his
There'd been some very strong
that I think MBS appreciated greatly.
much less predictable. And I don't think
transactional quality and the fact that
instance recently over Russian oil sales
your knowledge of MBS, will he also be
midst of this big Vision 2030
make sure that it's a properly
the region and potentially on the global
whole agenda at home? Yes. I mean any
and drones is very bad for the Vision
Arabia that MBS has put into place. So
in Sudan. He's very keen to also see
know, for him
integrated economic zone in the Middle
Arabia connects Asia to Africa and to
is thriving in Saudi Arabia. And so all
quickly. He also, of course, wants a
you know, there's a temporary rise in
want to see this. He doesn't want to see
Bernard? And I'm thinking particularly
the last few months linked well, you
countries? Yeah, I think that there is a
both structural and personal. So at the
Western Europe. So you know, Saudi
region, the Qatar's, the Bahrain's, the
in oil policy between Saudi Arabia and
contain the production of oil to
where their headquarters are going to be
tech and all kinds of other things. And
UAE is a bit like Great Britain. It's
through a network of connections with
in Somalia, and Somaliland, and Sudan.
this uh political ambition of the UAE is
actors and separate separatist movements
……（接近结尾）……
do do you feel a sense of apprehension
for what comes next in the region, or is
there a sense of opportunity somewhere
in all of this?
Look, basically, you have in the Middle
East a group of nations that are all,
with the exception of Iran, allies of
the United States. And the US has to
play a central role in pressurizing and
and making sure that these different
countries get along with each other
despite their many differences. So you
have Turkey, you have Israel, you have
Saudi Arabia, you have Egypt. What
happens with Iran is crucial for the
future, but let's say you have a
reformed regime in Iran that is less
revolutionary. There's an opportunity
certainly for the US
to bang heads together and make the
countries of this region work closer
together and better together. But for
that, you would need, for instance, the
US to put pressure on Israel to come up
with
a solution to the Palestinian question
of statehood.
Uh you would need to also make sure
that, you know, tensions say between
Saudi Arabia and the UAE don't
get worse. You need to contain Turkey's
expansion through the use of Islamism.
Uh so the US has to play this key role
as a mediator between these countries.
And And it doesn't do that, I think that
you will have perpetual tension. Uh
maybe not war as much as what we're
seeing now, but but a lot of instability
and sources of
of of radicalization. The most important
of which is the question of Palestine.
And as things stand, not only is
statehood very far away, but aid is not
being allowed into Gaza. That was Yeah.
one of the impacts of this war breaking
out.
Yes, and I think you know, from the
Saudi perspective, let's say, there's
going to be an election in Israel later
this year, and the hope is that you end
up with a less right-wing government
that sees, now that say Iran has been
put into a box and is less radical and
and less uh of a menace, that there's a
possibility of a more tolerant uh view
on the question of Palestine, and that
the Israelis can finally come to some
sort of accommodation with the
Palestinians by realizing that if this
problem is not solved, you'll always
have repeated wars and repeated tensions
and violence. And other countries, now
maybe not Iran, but perhaps Turkey in
the future, using the Palestinians to uh
foment trouble for for Israel. And do
you today feel more American than
Lebanese? I wonder what your connection
is at a personal level to the region
today when Lebanon's the place that you
were born and brought up? I do feel very
American and and uh I feel like I am an
American patriot because this country
has been wonderful to me and to my
family. And I I feel very sad and and
ashamed of Lebanon for the governments
that we've had and the fact that you
have this remarkable community of
Lebanese that is talented, uh we have
the best human capital in the region, we
have lots of money in the diaspora.
Uh you know, the Lebanese could easily
turn this their country, which is one of
the most beautiful in the world, into a
paradise and have not done so. And
that's a source of of sadness and and
frankly of shame. They have had a lot of
outside meddling in the country. That's
right, but they've been willing to allow
outsiders to meddle as well. There was a
photograph I saw on X, you've probably
seen the same, which is of a Middle East
Airlines plane taking off from Beirut
Airport just as air strikes are coming
in, which kind of
says something about resilience and what
you learn when when you've been through
cycles of conflict, life has to go on.
Yes, I mean the Lebanese are the most
resilient people. And frankly, there are
also there are also other images where
you see, you know, say people in one
half of Beirut where there is no war
playing tennis and in swimming pools in
the other half of the city being bombed
at the smithereens during the civil war.
We've had scenes like that as well. And
those again are not anything to be proud
of. Professor Bernard Haykel, thank you
so much for talking to us and for
sharing so much knowledge.
Thank you.