TITLE: War in Iran Is Creating a Fertilizer Crisis Like Never Before | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots Audio
DURATION_S: 1847  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-11T13:37:03+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KREpnKN1HtM
SHA256: 17bdecd5cd208dad6058cdfc74f9d93d30264bc0120ee83596b5391679c5b212

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2022] like around spring, April 2022. They got
  [2021] side shocks. In 2021, China started
  [2026] &gt;&gt; All right. So, fast forward to 2026 and
  [25%] fertilizer, those have shot up like 25%.
  [46%] is about 46% nitrogen. And for those of
  [45%] Persian Gulf, about 45% of the world's
  [20%] East, and about about 20% of the ammonia
  [1100] prices, they soared to over $1,100 a
  [2024] metric ton in 2024. They're close to 600
  [2100] price that's over $2,100.
  [2025] here in 2025. So, I'll say the economic
  [40%] say, you know, 40% of the nitrogen that
  [2020] started in 2020, 2021.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
radio, news.
the Odd Lots podcast. [music] I'm Tracy
Alloway.
or a feudal lord
next-door neighbors. I don't know, this
is completely hypothetical.
the best time to actually do it?
before if I'm being totally honest.
about if you were a Roman general at all
hours of the day.
stuff like that. I don't know much about
Rome. I don't Go on.
So, for much of human history, if you
were going to go to war, you would try
to avoid certain times of year and those
times were generally the spring sowing
season
reasons you would do that. One is
because a lot of your soldiers are
actually farmers.
day job is farming. And the second one
is you don't want to completely disrupt
your food supply, right?
thought about that, but yes, makes a ton
of sense.
we've clearly forgotten much of human
history because we have a US Israeli war
against Iran that is coming at perhaps
the worst possible time in terms of
agriculture.
this at all. So, I did learn over the
last week, you know, when I think about
the shutdown of the Strait of Hormuz and
so forth. Obviously, I think oil and
energy. I have become aware through your
writing and others that it's also major
choke point or major throughway for
related foodstuffs including fertilizer.
I had not heard anything about the
timing element, however, until you just
brought it up just now.
spring planting at the moment. So this
is precisely when you theoretically
would be using a lot of fertilizer and
just in the past week or so we've seen
prices for urea, which is, you know, one
of the I guess most popular types of
fertilizer, those have shot up like 25%.
know this, but we have all these
different types of urea. So you have
Egyptian granular urea, New Orleans
urea. We're going to talk about all of
it. I've wanted to do a fertilizer
episode for a long time. I want to talk
about what's going on with the Moroccan
fertilizer industry as well, but I am I
am weirdly excited to be talking about
urea today.
guest. We're going to be speaking with
Alexis Maxwell. She's an analyst on the
Bloomberg Intelligence Agriculture team
and she's been writing a lot about this.
So Alexis, thank you so much for coming
on Odd Lots.
not a great time the worst
possible time to be driving the price of
fertilizer up?
I couldn't think of a worse time to have
a supply side shock and resulting surge
in fertilizer prices for farmers
effectively
just about everywhere. Second quarter is
the timeline when the northern
hemisphere starts their planting season.
form of nitrogen. Crops are going to
demand a variety of fertilizers, but the
big three that you have to use are going
to be your nitrogen, phosphate, and
potash. And in the industry we call it
your NPKs.
Urea is a form of nitrogen. I think
about this like a step ladder. If you
want urea, the way that you get it is by
starting first with natural gas, you
crack it into ammonia, and then you run
another chemical conversion on it, and
you turn it into a granular product that
is easy to apply, easy to transport, and
is about 46% nitrogen. And for those of
you who've never applied fertilizer or
planted crops, you've probably bought
some flowers at some point in your life.
And you get a little packet that has
some like white crystals in it. You're
going to have urea in there to help your
flowers grow.
Okay, so one thing I know about
fertilizer, other than most of it smells
pretty bad, but you always hear this
thing about the Haber-Bosch process, and
how the guy who basically,
I guess, invented the way we get
fertilizer nowadays is responsible both
for a massive boom in the human
population because everyone gets to eat
more, but also responsible for a lot of
death at the same time. Can you talk
about the I guess the origins of all of
this?
the greatest paradoxes of humanity. You
know, Tracy, I can't think of an
invention that on one hand is more
responsible for billions of lives, but
also at the same time generates a
product that is used as a weapon of war.
And some people will tell you, you know,
with the global population just over 7
billion, about half of the people on the
earth today are here because of
conventional fertilizers.
If we were to, let's just say tomorrow,
stop using conventional fertilizer, and
we converted everything back to organic,
and we farmed every single acre of
arable land out there, they say that the
earth could really only support a
population of about 4 billion people.
So, conventional fertilizer is, I think,
the most important invention to the most
number of people on this planet.
comes from It's downstream from natural
gas. And so, explain to me like what
happens like why not ship the gas? I
mean, right now nothing is shipping or
very little is moving through the
strait. But, why is the process such
that the first step, the transformation
of natural gas to urea, happens at the
source rather than later down somewhere
else in the supply chain?
plants will often be co-located
with natural gas because to ship natural
gas, you have to chill it to very low
temperatures and it's very expensive to
move it. In contrast, urea is It's a
granular. You can ship it in a as a bulk
commodity item. It's much cheaper to do
it that way and you can reach a vast
number of people. You'll find urea
plants around the world, but most of
them are really located in places with
low-cost gas because this is a
competitive competitive commodity
industry. So, you'll see these plants in
places like Russia, the Middle East, the
United States, and China.
bit of like aluminum. Like, here is this
thing that it's like, "Okay, you can
ship it anywhere in the world. It's a
lot easier to ship aluminum than it is
to transport electricity via batteries."
So, you have the aluminum processing
co-located where you have cheap
electricity and then it, of course, it's
sort of trivial to move it elsewhere.
How much of the world's urea is in
conflict-affected regions right now?
about the urea and why we we ship it. It
has a very strong seasonality. So, you
know, when you run a large chemical
manufacturing plant, you want to capture
the economies of scale and you want to
run your plant 365 days a year.
fertilizer industry is that farmers only
demand urea at a very short period of
the year. Let's just say like 2 months
of the year. So, that puts these
manufacturers in a
sort of classic snake and egg supply
chain problem. What do you do with the
material the rest of the year? So, it's
much easier to ship it out than it is to
store it and keep it on hand for farmers
10 months out and to take that price
risk.
Can How storable is urea actually? Cuz I
think about those little packets, they
seem like they could last for quite a
while.
it in a warehouse and you can have it
covered from the rain and possibly other
elements, you can probably keep it on
hand for at least a couple of months,
probably three, four, five months.
However, you know, if you have a
warehouse, the way that you really
maximize the value of a warehouse is by
turning the inventory in your warehouse
and selling that. So, when you put urea
in a warehouse, you're taking on
price risk over the period that sits in
that it will sit in storage and you're
not using your warehouse for what it's
really designed for. So, a lot of what
we see with these urea facilities, it's
make and ship. There isn't a strategic
reserve of urea the same way that we
would have it like in oil, for example,
which is partially why this crisis is
really compounding for urea at this time
of year.
We don't have
significant storage to replace what
we're losing in the Middle East. Now,
the Middle East, if we look at the
countries that are located along the
……（中部抽样）……
Persian Gulf, about 45% of the world's
East, and about about 20% of the ammonia
well.
to procure a replacement for what we've
there's not really a good next best
You could try going to Russia to procure
sanctioned Russia and their fertilizer
You could try going to China, but China
urea fertilizers, and that's done to
their farmers.
over with places like Egypt or maybe the
East is most of it going to Asia?
everywhere. Every single day they're in
the Middle East, just to keep their
these producers are loading one vessel
And so, where the shipments go from the
it is. So, when farmers are demanding
American farmers in the second quarter,
urea go there. But, in the second half
more of the urea move to places like
flipped season to the Northern
time.
remember when I was in Abu Dhabi, there
companies that were very excited about
with Morocco. What's going on there?
phosphate. So, phosphate is one of those
Morocco is expanding their phosphate
because of their location in Africa,
to move around the world. I think of
little bit like oil to the
prices, they soared to over $1,100 a
invasion of Ukraine. That peak looks
down to about a little under $300 a
now. Before we get to the effects of
that is, what was the impact on the 2022
effects of that massive surge?
side shocks. In 2021, China started
fertilizers. And the importance of China
cannot be overstated. So, China is the
phosphate. So, generally speaking, when
globally will tend to fall. And when
to the next level of production costs.
slammed the door on exports, the world
to supply.
invasion into Ukraine in the first
prices spike on top of that because the
unclear about how we could source
high-volume exporter, they're a low-cost
the really the only country that will do
phosphate, and potash. You name the
can get it out of Russia.
surge in the industry to try to find an
earlier that when we took China out of
fertilizer prices had to go above the
in China and bid in new supply. And the
oriented, that meant the world had to go
nitrogen and turn those plants on in
the price for natural gas in Europe,
then eventually urea, was surging over
run the economics of what it costs to
back-of-the-napkin math to do this. It
of natural gas to produce one ton of
make ammonia and I'm paying $60 for
price that's over $2,100.
wheat,
hopefully I have a Bloomberg terminal.
looking at the chart of the price spike
thinking to myself in terms of
probably four options or decisions that
tell you I do think that US farmers are
storm compared to farmers in let's say
point.
to do is you can reduce your application
planting, let's say from corn to shift
significantly less amounts of nitrogen.
can switch among your nitrogen products.
not plant at all.
that I saw, where already senators in DC
wanting to get relief from wanting to
extreme, but you know, the price is to
Orleans price, that's shooting up too.
570 pounds a ton.
relative. So, I want to just give some
know, Egypt urea is like
about 1/3 below the 22 price spike.
worst it's ever been for farmers looking
the industry by just looking at the urea
last incremental ton of nitrogen is
kind of you want to run the economics
bit more on my nitrogen, am I going to
what the price of the commodity is. And
corn price ratio
And with the price surge that we're
have prices settle on Friday that will
that urea has ever been to a corn
chart in the newsletter because I I just
about it. And yes, we are very close to
price not necessarily at all-time highs,
to all-time highs there.
you've heard I mean, it's a running joke
complaining about something. But, one of
fertilizer prices even before,
before the 2022
grumbling. What's going on in the
make fertilizer prices an issue for the
right now is
at like for example, the difference
inputs versus the prices that they get
a record negative spread in January.
the US farm economy, and we're seeing
specialized form of bankruptcy for
here in 2025. So, I'll say the economic
fertilizer prices, they tend to cycle
The last time we really saw an amplified
'08, kind of in line with the financial
But what makes this different is in
demand cycle in '07 and '08 that caused
a supply-side crisis. You know, I think
We've taken China out of the market.
acquire. And now you throw in We have
Strait of Hormuz, where almost, let's
we need is
Those are the supply-side drivers that
mid-cycle level for
industry would have expected when this
foresee a situation where you can't get
roll over in his grave if [laughter] I
back to, you know, applying fertilizer,
crop wants it. So, that's really
emergence of your crop. It's You know,
you know,
their as they start to grow.
feed them anymore. They fend for
at that point.
application window, you it's really
impossible to go back and apply
yield penalty.
mentioned, you know, some of the legs of
So, the lowest it got after the
anywhere close to say pre-Ukraine or
shifted into a higher regime generally
we're talking about oil markets, we know
already been destroyed. So, even if the
time, there's infrastructure that's been
have been shut in because they're
What do we know about the fertilizer
the damage that's been done, and so
and suddenly things started flowing
tomorrow, which doesn't seem very
condition of the infrastructure and how
again?
you'd start to see fertilizer come out
seen much in the way of these facilities
of the manufacturing sites have shut
restart a fertilizer facility, it's
natural gas burn just to get the plant
then you have to load a You have to
vessel. You have to get it back out. And
clarity on when the straight reopens,
it fertilizer? I'm just going to guess
once this has a clear end date, at least
fertilizer come back out [music] of the
flux and I should just add our standard
this on March 10th and who knows what
comes out, but
feeding into food prices? I mean, this
fertilizer, you get lower yields, supply
have farmers that continue to use
and so they have to offset it with
time frame of when we might start to see
system. It's the relationship between
food arrives on your dinner plate,
inputs to how that all works. But so
……（接近结尾）……
mentioned earlier this is a record we
were expecting to see a record urea to
corn price ratio. That will destroy a
lot of urea demand. And so, if
the strait reopened next week, you know,
you would see urea prices sort of snap
back to before
maybe you would see them snap back to
where they were before this war. So,
thinking about like food production and
the relationship with this. So, we're
planting now in the spring. I'm
expecting lower yields for corn, for
example. That corn isn't going to get
harvested until probably about September
or October of this year. And then it'll
have to move to, let's say a milling
location or an ethanol plant. Lower
yields is going to be something that'll
move through the food production system
over a time span of about a year or two.
coming on Off Bots and finally letting
us talk fertilizer. [music] I wish it
was under better circumstances, but this
was absolutely fascinating. Thank you.
It was my pleasure.
those little packets that comes with
flowers, fresh flowers, the same way
again.
maybe I maybe I put them in the water,
I'd no idea. But no, that was super
interesting and the sort of the money
chart for me was really seeing that urea
to corn futures ratio, which is very
clean and very elegant. And you can just
see farmers are how much stress they're
already feeling and then how much
additional stress they're seeing just in
the last weeks. But there haven't really
been good conditions for fertilizer
costs really since the pandemic. It has
seemed like, in particular since the war
in Ukraine started, this structural
shift in supply.
stood out to me. So, number one, um,
tough times for farmers and it seems
like in all these instances the pain
usually falls on the smaller scale
farmers versus the big ones. I imagine
in this particular situation, if you're
a huge farmer out in Iowa or wherever,
you probably have enough scale to ensure
that you're still getting some sort of
fertilizer.
to help you versus say a small-scale
farmer who's like making these decisions
on an individual basis. The other thing
that stood out to me, and we've heard
this before in our oil discussion with
Rory Johnston, this idea that, well,
again, the big fare better, so the US is
probably going to make it out better
than say in India which uses nat gas
from the Middle East in order to make
its own fertilizer.
And then the other thing that stood out
to me was that idea of storage. So,
something can cost a lot of money and it
seems like fertilizer in particular
hasn't really been stored in the way
maybe some other metals have been
because, you know, most of the time you
only need it, I guess, twice a year, you
know, once in the southern hemisphere
and once in the northern hemisphere.
supply chain has been optimized for sort
of long-term accumulation. There aren't
strategic urea reserves the way there
are with other commodity reserves. It's
really going to be a mess. And you know,
what that is what we talked to Rory
Johnston about energy and you know,
again, in the US it's going to show up
mostly at higher prices in the pump.
Elsewhere, it's going to show up as
literally an unavailability, a reduction
in the amount of energy, the amount of
oil that's capable. It's really
disturbing to think like yeah, I mean
no one wants to pay higher groceries,
but it's a lot better than outright
famine, which is the risk when you do
such a massive shock to the food supply.
there?
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy [music] Alloway.
You can follow me at Tracy Alloway.
me at The Stalwart. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Arman, Dasho
Bennett at Dash Bot, and Kilburg at
Kilburg. And for more Odd Lots content,
go to bloomberg.com/oddlots
for the daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. And you can chat about all of
these topics 24/7 in our Discord
discord.gg/oddlots. [music]
it when we talk fertilizer, then please
leave us a positive review on your
favorite podcast platform. [music]
And remember, if you are a Bloomberg
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely ad-free. All you
need to do is find the Bloomberg channel
on Apple Podcasts and follow [music] the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.