TITLE: Robinhood CEO Vlad Tenev on Tokenization and Prediction Markets for Everything | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots
DURATION_S: 3264  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-09T08:10:31+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ljI_O210W3U
SHA256: bf55a0fc7cab439070eeb42a932df1d915322df2950e33932058ddceafb66609

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [100%] &gt;&gt; before the toss then it went to 100%.
  [50%] tails and it was trading at 50% Yeah.
  [20%] every dollar past our hurdle rate uh 20%
  [1%] on, "Will Tesla go up 1% today? Will go
  [2%] up 2%?" You could just read
  [2022] Then the IPO market shut in 2022.
  [99%] that's a And then they'll learn that 99%
  [22%] Last I checked, 22% chance that there
  [5%] &gt;&gt; Well, actually, it's got 5% dining
  [1980] you think about the 1980s, you had that
  [2026] forward to 2026 and it feels like

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Would there be any limitation legally on
Robinhood setting up a live stream of a
giant roulette wheel and having people
make futures event contracts on whether
it's red or black?
Yeah, I mean currently our policy has
been to uh
have them be backed by real events. So,
we we don't want to do like
derivative We haven't done any
derivative prediction markets and
there's there's different forms of that
as well like um
you have like prediction markets and
then you have a prediction market on how
this prediction market is is going to
go. So
had a uh
market where it was the coin toss at the
Super Bowl. You could bet on heads or
tails and it was trading at 50% Yeah.
Super Bowl at that point if people are
willing to like bet money on a coin
toss? Why not I just have a continuous
coin toss Why Why you Just forget the
Super Bowl. Just have a coin tossing
machine and let people trade on it. Is
there like
Is there anything actually like stopping
you from doing that?
Um I'm I'm not sure. Um
Yeah, I mean I'd I'd have to look into
that. We don't offer any of those
contracts. I personally, you know, I'm a
former trader probably wouldn't trade
those.
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. And I'm Tracy Alloway.
before but an idea that I've had for
podcast in general, maybe this one one
day, other podcast, I want to do
everything in two parts. Oh, yes. Yeah.
Interview the guest because sometimes
it's like all of the questions I want to
ask are only after I've talked to a
guest for an hour and have some better
understanding of the situation. So, I
want to interview the guest,
think about it for a few days, let the
listeners uh listen to it and have their
questions, and then it's like, "Okay,
you know, we've thought about it for a
few days, come back. Also, our listeners
want to know about this." And then have
the second part of the conversation,
just like a follow-up. I want to like
formalize it. I want to do that more.
a flywheel of content, really.
never-ending that way. Yeah, I think
that It's good job security. Anyway, we
did an episode last year that um was
great, but it also provoked uh a lot of
questions. I would just say like jump
right into it. So, we did an episode
last year with Vlad Tenev, the
co-founder and CEO of Robinhood, and
that was about the company's
tokenization efforts. So, basically, his
ability to create instruments that would
allow users to actually trade uh shares,
not shares, I guess, but you know, quasi
equity or equity-linked instruments in
private companies, like, you know, an
open AI or something like that. Um and
then after that came out, a bunch of
people, including the company itself,
were There's a lot of reaction.
Since when did You know, these private
companies, they're like, "Since when the
heck did like we authorize our equity to
be traded like this?" There were all
kinds of stuff. I didn't even like
really think about that aspect of the
time, so it's like, I wanted to know
more. I think there's a lot to talk
about here. So, I mean, it does feel
like the I I guess the trajectory of
history right now is marching towards
tokenizing everything and just allowing
markets in everything, right?
like kind of quasi derivatives to
one-off event bets, like, that just
feels like the trend at the moment. But
at the same time, there are so many
interesting questions that this actually
raises, not least of which is the safety
aspect, and how much of our lives are
just going to be watching lines going up
or down and making bets on them.
Uh absolutely right. You know, like with
the prediction markets, and you know,
something I've been thinking about with
prediction markets is you can replicate
equity through that, right? Because you
could just have like prediction markets
on, "Will Tesla go up 1% today? Will go
up 2%?" You could just read
You can recreate all of these
instruments in all these different
formats. So, it definitely feels like a
jump ball, especially with a very sort
of liberal regulatory environment.
Anyway,
I'm very excited to say we're going to
get a chance to do the second half of
that conversation that came out last
July. So, we are rejoined once again by
Vlad Tenev, co-founder and CEO of
Robinhood. So, Vlad, thanks for coming
back on Out Lot. I'm happy to be here
again. And I think from the guest
perspective, I'd also like this if there
was an opportunity to replace any of my
answers from part one [laughter] with
better Now that I know the questions.
You can't replace them. That's going to
The first one is going to live on
forever. But
format that you created. That's right.
Of course we did. Well, let's talk about
that cuz like we did that episode where
you talked about these tokenization
efforts. And I was I don't know why I
didn't even think like are the companies
whose private shares are being tokenized
are being cool with this? But apparently
they weren't. What's going on with that?
What happened with that? Because it does
seem weird to be able to offer
instruments of privately traded
companies when the companies themselves
like just to be clear, this is not this
is not us.
Yeah, and you know, they um
I I think there was various degrees of
disavowal. I think a lot of these
companies are very concerned about their
reputations. And if they don't
understand something, they don't have
time to to dig into it, they'll just
say, "We had nothing to do with this."
Um which I think is fair. I think you
talk to these AI companies and they they
all kind of say the same thing, which
is, "Yeah, we'd love our our company to
allow retail investors exposure, right?
And and we think that would be better
for the world." Ev- everyone generally
agrees with this. But when you get down
to the details of what that entails and
it is a new thing. Not a lot of
companies are doing it. Um nobody really
wants to be the first and no one wants
to mess with the status quo. And and
from their perspective, they want to
focus on running their business,
increasing their revenues, and this is
sort of ancillary.
But for us, it is our business. Our
business is all about helping the retail
investor, making sure they have all the
advantages that institutions have. And
so, um,
it's it's very very important. So, we've
we've continued on this journey.
Obviously, the Open AI and SpaceX stock
token giveaways in Europe were kind of
step one.
Uh, but but it's evolved. Like we're
continuing to pursue that overseas. But
of course, we want to find a US solution
for US customers as well. And actually
this week we are taking public uh,
Robinhood Ventures Fund I, RVI, on the
NYSE, which is a closed-end fund. So,
you can think of it as a venture capital
firm that we're taking public. We raised
capital from retail investors and some
institutional as well.
And we use that capital to invest in
private companies, which we've already
invested in in in quite a few. These are
things that traditionally would be
limited to accredited investors, right?
carry. Hm. So, so actually one of the
things we've been hearing is from a
perspective of an LP that invests in
venture capital firms and has to give up
that performance fee to the manager, uh,
this this is this is a disruptive
vehicle. Uh, and and for all of the
Robinhood Ventures portfolio companies,
and these are companies like Databricks,
Aura, Revolut. I think I have to go
through all of them cuz I don't want to
pick out a particular thing.
Uh, Boom Supersonic.
Mercor,
um,
and Stripe, uh, which we've signed and
and not closed, uh, and I'm probably
forgetting some. But, uh,
yeah, these are all companies that
are excited to have Robinhood and retail
be a part of the picture and they filmed
videos explaining why they chose to be
to be part of this. So, there are people
that want to be the first. And of
course, this is a a different product
than tokenization of an individual name.
……（中部抽样）……
And and so,
these companies.
where we're actually surprised how many
been in the past and just get into these
promised to to answer all of our our
I guess, investing, trading, and
buy a stock, you're buying equity. The
putting capital in the company and the
helpful.
be different activities within one
intend to sell it.
I'm building like a monotonically
3 months, but there's like a very
uh mostly emotional driven. Like maybe I
On tokenization specifically, just to go
US,
swap where the only thing backing it is
giveaways. So those haven't been
Europe for tokenization or sort of like
is sort of like meets all of the answers
but as of now private stock tokens
for example OpenAI doesn't have
actual asset that someone has. With the
the like special purpose vehicle I
traditional rules and legal covenants
can think of this as kind of the
event of bankruptcy of of Robinhood or
to have a V2 and eventually a phase
maybe it's a little clunky and it is
actually much better for them.
ventures fund, I know you said it was a
financial engineering interesting, and
changed? Like, how are you making the
actually get overhauled. Yeah, I think
the problems that people have with
my capital locked up for 10 years,
what we're doing here is we're out there
where the deals are getting done, where
you know, Chair- Chairman Atkins of the
part working with the regulators to try
state necessarily. I think this thing
attractive because it makes it so that
uh both sides. You need retail to
actually boot do both of these things
have lots of ideas of of of unique
getting into a private a hot private
relationships with our investments. How
what that means is it's just the more uh
of that goes goes back to the fund
retail. And no other venture capital
pop. And I think that's something that
future less people will not like it
interested in it. And I think it'll
member. And you know, we first rolled
other companies that um
a lot of favors, right? There was some
about retail strategy. Pretty much all
advantages is okay, there's no carry,
pretty obvious. Like the goal is to make
right? They're the they're kind of
the most money, the best returns,
for the collection of companies that
investing? Well, I mean, first of all,
and, you know, we have a fiduciary
like this is actually adverse selection.
mentioned this on another episode.
it. But like, I always have the thought
sign. I'm not I'm not saying a bad sign,
that on its head and actually all of the
um
we started, you know, getting
uh I think we're we're very proud of the
this is that you don't the investor
really know what the share count is, you
trade-off is like, "Okay, investors can
don't think so. I don't worry about
the private companies themselves in
they've chosen to share, but it's all in
example.
investing in a public company say in the
company-like disclosures and audits on a
of billions. Probably 15 years ago these
Um and these are like the companies that
Actually, the thing I'm most excited
company should have a retail
do I get exposure to something that's
some good
ownership. They want to invest in
themselves, it sounds like.
customers.
information in the market, and you can
get a little bit investment banky, where
about how like the data and the flow
to do is give people things they're
fund is managed, it has a separate board
I don't
highly regulated and scrutinized by
You have a relationship with Kalshi so
liquidity pool and activity that's
Yeah, I mean it's it's fundamentally two
institutional business uh predominantly
where you're matching orders.
good about listing products, maintaining
assets are worth, you know, tens of
your your money and your assets.
trader, we should get 100% of your
through our card products, your banking
advantage, but um it's not like a
which is a a DCM. So, we do intend to
idea that like, well, actually, if
would take a position on what's
evidence that people are like thinking
covered about people being incredibly
talk about, but economics, you've got a
Um And rising, I think. Rising recently
building models. And what what you find
these opportunities are arbitrage by by
with you. As you understand it today,
Yeah, I mean currently our policy has
there's there's different forms of that
had a uh
willing to like bet money on a coin
is there anything actually like stopping
former trader probably wouldn't trade
I'm not against people innovating
happens as long as nobody's getting hurt
be you want to be the one-stop shop for
or will you all is the goal so that a
is is the larger because they have the
And as I mentioned before, we've got uh
think the way this plays out is similar
I think where this ends up is you'll
actually offload risk and you know,
different exchanges, exchange one for
complaint that we often hear is, well,
Kalshi.
selection are are the big things.
use case of just looking at the markets
order with size. Um,
don't think of as event contracts. So,
going to ask. Do you see a era a point
the price exposure that they want
exposure is extremely
monetization on equities business is
you have leverage,
Will you provide leverage to prediction
I guess we're working on it to some
but I think it's coming. Look, I mean, I
traders, the leverage is actually
there's a lot there's a lot of growth
happen quickly. And I think there's all
place. We don't see any cannibalization.
you have a particular equity. In that
Uh we think there's a big opportunity in
revenue contracts directly would be
So, uh harmonization is needed to to
a market maker standpoint because we're
yeah, and and it's evolved similar I
does consent matter at all?
pause for providing a token in that
might not want to annoy a bunch of
have is we'd like to get the consent of
high net worth individual. There are
uh LP in an in an SPV that exists. Uh so
control of your shareholder base.
don't want to have they don't want
taking now. Um I'm mindful of the time,
all the great fe- People can look that
on it.
Uh very different. No one wants that
uh we want this to be like the James
And I think we
so
like uh nobody offers that with a high
of people A lot of people don't really
luxury good. And I don't know if the
……（接近结尾）……
that's where we're going. And then the
other thing too is that as I mentioned
like
whether it's like technological
arbitrage or regulatory arbitrage, every
type of bet can be turned into done with
any type of instrument. You can
replicate stock and options with
futures. You can do sports betting in
the form of um in the form of prediction
markets. You can then take prediction
markets and we've already seen this. You
can take prediction markets and bundle
them into ETFs. And so you could have
buy an ETF that is a series of long
Democrat in the Senate markets etc. And
so everything can be wrapped in every
other sort of wrapper and everything is
just sort of seemingly once you find the
right wrapper kind of allowed within our
current sort of like regulatory
framework. And honestly, even if it's
not allowed, you do it offshore with
crypto etc. And so there's almost no way
to sort of stop this stop this
progression. But the other thing I've
been thinking of is you know, we used to
hear of markets described as you know,
there there were upsides to capitalism,
right? Like you're supposed to be
efficiently allocating money to
companies.
Of course. But like that used to be the
thing, right? And now you see more and
more money that's kind of being diverted
away from like well, this is just going
to fund a company. Well, we're just
going to bet on the line in the company
going up or you know, some other real
world outcome or whatever. It feel
Here's what it is.
We were talking about this the other
day, but like it actually feels like if
you think about the 1980s, you had that
greed is good [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] right? And even that
was controversial. And now you fast
forward to 2026 and it feels like
morality doesn't even like necessarily
enter into it. Everyone is just like so
resigned to this idea that like well, of
course people are going to try to make
money. Of course we're going to just bet
on random things to try to win. Everyone
just accepts that like securing the bag
is is the uh thing.
like I think American capital markets
are good in part because we really do
have excellent disclosure. And um you
know, from time to time you hear about a
like an accounting scandal but they're
rare. Like and they're a lot rarer. I
think anyone who looks in any other
market around the world would find them
way more frequent.
find it way more frequent in other
markets outside the US because we have
this very good regulatory regime and
expectations and the SEC mostly does its
job very well. And which's going to
increasingly sort of like be taken over
by tradeable instruments which investors
really do not have the same level of
information at all and the expectation
that an investor would like be able to
know the share count of a thing they're
buying or would be able to know the
earnings or the margins of a thing
they're buying. Like that's going away
and we might regret like having so much
uh traded without as much transparency
at some point down the line.
reminder. I wanted to call back to two
episodes. So on that note, we did that
really good episode about private credit
in particular kind of turning the
economy into a black hole.
I think that's really good. You know,
obviously it's focused on credit but you
can extrapolate to more and more
companies just going private in general.
And then secondly, Vlad mentioned he's
really into aliens. Oh, yeah. We got to
get Paul Krugman back on To talk about
[laughter] aliens. to talk about aliens.
But in the meantime, there is an
existing episode that people should
check out. Anyway, shall we leave it
there? Let's leave it there. Okay. This
has been another episode of the Odd Lots
podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe
Weisenthal. You can follow me at The
Stalwart. Follow our guest Vlad Tenev.
He's at Vlad Tenev. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Arman, Dash
Bennett at Dash Bot, and Kilburgs at
Kilburgs. And for more Odd Lots content,
you should definitely check out our
daily newsletter. You can find that at
bloomberg.com/odd
lots. And you can chat about all of
these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odd
lots. And if you enjoyed this
conversation, then please leave a
comment or like the video or better yet,
subscribe. Thanks for watching.