TITLE: Trump's Iran Ultimatum Roils Asian Markets | The China Show 3/23/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5752  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-23T07:02:01+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oKXZApBrjLQ
SHA256: 05755308621a93fffc21053bb46eee46ec07f7594a41723b8d1e5ae23a33a90c

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2%] Asian benchmark. We're down 2 and 1/2%
  [4%] falling some 4%. Zijin Mining also came
  [2027] on until 2027 next year
  [1.2] trade surplus to the tune of $1.2
  [3%] these markets. We're down 3% on the
  [5500] We've taken out 5,500 in gold. 5,500 is
  [1%] the fray. Uh but we are seeing 1%
  [5%] today. 4 and 1/2, let's call it 5% drop
  [50000] today, we could get below 50,000 on the
  [95%] sourcing program. In fact, 95% of our
  [2022] time since 2022. The stock is down some
  [2026] their inflation forecast for 2026. This
  [0.7%] here. So talking about 0.7% for CPI
  [2.6%] to a bad start. 2.6% to the downside.
  [4.4] risk there. Nikkei, we're off 4.4 now.
  [80%] and a half ago we had something like 80%
  [19%] Gold Mine. That's down some 19%.
  [25000] falling below 25,000 for the Hang Seng
  [7%] Mining is down close to 7%. They also
  [50%] just to underscore that point, 50%
  [18%] crude oil around 18% of its energy
  [12%] stack. And then call it 12% or so of
  [5000] propelled it through the 5,000 number.
  [7000] at least, a target of 7,000 for Cosby is
  [0.8%] correlation of roughly 0.8% with the
  [11%] China up 11%, good, but exports from
  [28%] China into the European Union up 28%.
  [2000] conference that was set up in 2000 by
  [2.7%] Pacific, we're down 2.7% now.
  [51000] 51,000
  [4500] 4,500 bit
  [47.48%] 47.48%
  [4000] below 4,000. So, now people are talking
  [800000] exports was what? Sub 800,000
  [10000] to bring like more than 10,000 GPUs in
  [4400] We're just below that 4,400 level and
  [0.3%] inflation they expect to be 0.3% based
  [20%] 15 to 20% off our cost base would create
  [5.6] to 3 GW of generation, we've got a 5.6
  [2002] again, since 2002, all the iron ore

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong. You're watching the
China Show. I'm Yvonne Man with David
Ingles.
markets in greater China. Let's get here
top stories today. Stocks and bonds
sliding while oil swings after President
Trump's ultimatum to Iran to reopen the
Strait of Hormuz by tomorrow. Traders
adding to bets on a Fed rate hike this
year.
Iran threatening all US and Israeli
infrastructure in the region if Trump
follows through and attacks its power
plants.
I'm Stephen Engle at the China
Development Forum in Beijing where
Premier Li Keqiang is promising to
address worries over China's massive
trade surplus to the tune of $1.2
trillion by the way. I'll be speaking
later exclusively with UBS Group CEO
Sergio Ermotti and later
Fortescue Metals CEO Dino Otranto.
Plus more big interviews from Milken's
Global Investor Symposium here in Hong
Kong including Goldman Sachs' APAC
ex-Japan president Kevin Sneader as well
as Sung Kim, the head of South Korean AI
startup Upstage.
Day 24 of this Iran war and we are still
seeing no letup in sight. I think
markets once again awaken to that
reality that maybe there is still no
off-ramp right now. We came out of this
weekend with not much of resolution and
now we are counting down to this sort of
deadline that President Trump has laid
out on, you know, whether the Iranians
will want to reopen the Strait of Hormuz
here right now. Oil markets are in flux,
so are risk assets. Yeah, only bad
options uh and Iran
responding to that deadline from
President Trump with their own threats.
bed this morning and it's really only
about options when you look at markets
for example.
Plus you have the quite literally right
now bets of tightening and so you have
the US dollar coming back quite strongly
as well. So, there is a Fed conversation
as well. And how would this all plays
out really will be covering all those
for you of course across the different
conferences we're at today. Uh just very
briefly though, let's have a look at the
damage report early this Monday across
these markets. We're down 3% on the
Asian benchmark. We're down 2 and 1/2%
going into the last few minutes or so.
And then you have Taiwan coming online.
We'll get to that in a moment. So,
weaker equity markets, strong dollar,
swings in oil prices, gold is taking it
on the chin
today. 4 and 1/2, let's call it 5% drop
right now in gold prices following the
worst week in 40 years as far as gold
goes, right? So, the kryptonite as far
as gold is concerned
is a stronger dollar and clearly not
holding up well in the face of currently
priced rate hikes. Nikkei, Kospi,
Taiwan, and Oz coming online. Close your
eyes if you're long Korea. If you
haven't seen your markets just yet,
we're down 6 and 1/2 on Korean markets.
Taiwan is off
to a bad start. 2.6% to the downside.
Australia's now poised to enter a
correction. US futures going into the
European session as well later today.
You European futures are also coming up
on your screens and as you can see and
as expected still risk off there. And we
are likely to see the pressure continue
when Chinese markets come online.
Shanghai futures, oil futures have
coming online too. 3 and 1/2% to the
upside and we are set. I can tell you
that right now. We are set for a steep
drop in Chinese equities going into the
Monday session. All right, let's bring
in our news desk managing editor Jill
Disis. She joins us now with the latest.
It appears that the president is is sort
of losing control of this war right now.
What what's the latest?
kind feeling very scattershot about this
latest threat from Trump, this 48-hour
deadline, which of course would put us
into our Tuesday morning, Monday night
in the US, for for it to expire, is that
it it does kind of feel a little bit
like a reversal from where we were just
even a few days before that where there
did seem to be an attempt at
de-escalating tensions. I think actually
it was the Republican Senator Lisa
Murkowski that kind of said it best here
where what Trump was essentially
threatening, this idea of you know, if
Iran does not reopen the Strait of
Hormuz, that they're going to start
bombing energy targets. I mean, that's
essentially what Trump got angry with
Israel for doing last week, right? I
mean, we saw massive moves in the oil
market, lots of escalating concerns
about oil supply when Israel was bombing
those energy targets. Obviously, we saw
Iran had the capacity to fire back and
attack you know, some of the largest
plants in the region, largest liquefied
natural gas plants in Qatar. So, you do
have a lot of those concerns about if
Trump does follow through, which you
know, I have to point out that Iran's
been quite defiant about this threat
saying that they would fire back at
energy targets as well,
that you could end up in a situation
where you're just escalating a lot of
things further.
Yeah, and we are going up that
escalation ladder quite quickly. And you
know, we're looking at we've heard from
the Israelis as well
over the week. I want to play that sound
bite out as well from the ambassador,
then we'll we'll talk about it just
after that. Let's play it out guys,
please if we can.
The end goal here is that there is not a
power an entity in Iran which is capable
of firing
massive numbers of ballistic missiles,
achieving a nuclear weapon, and
supporting proxies around the region. If
that can be achieved through the
collapse of this regime, so be it. If
not, those that's the minimum we have to
achieve.
And you know, I wonder when we're if
we're trying to figure out what the end
objective is here. I mean, there was
quite clearly as far as the Israelis
were concerned there, but as far as
President Trump, has he laid out that
beyond just the Strait of Hormuz? I
mean, I think at this point with Trump,
he's also laid out, you know, sort of
the complete demise of any
nuclear program ambitions that Iran has.
Obviously, when it comes to Israel,
they've kind of, you know, better
articulated that idea for total regime
change, but I think, you know, as we've
already seen with Iran, I mean, since
the outbreak of this war, you had you
know, the old supreme leader replaced
with his son, who if anything has just
been more hardline. So, it's a little
bit confusing in terms of what Trump's
end goal trajectories may be there. I
think the other thing to keep in mind
here is that we heard also from the US
Treasury Secretary Scott Bassin kind of
trying to bolster what Trump was saying
his rhetoric over the weekend saying
quote down here saying that sometimes
the only way to
you have to escalate to de-escalate,
which I think really just kind of shows
you there, you know, how how tricky this
entire situation is, but again,
has been a bit difficult to decipher the
the strategy here from the US. I think,
you know, that's kind of reflected as
well in what we're seeing in oil markets
and some of the confusion over trading
this morning. So, I guess we'll just
have to see,
you know, whether we hear any more from
Trump. Yeah, we're literally going to
have to wait and see and really what the
next move is. You know, the president
doesn't decide until he decides.
Jill, thank you so much. Jill Disis
there on our news desk, managing editor.
Speaking of just markets on quite
clearly still massive event headline
risk there. Nikkei, we're off 4.4 now.
So, you know what? Another day like
today, we could get below 50,000 on the
Nikkei.
We've taken out 5,500 in gold. 5,500 is
one to watch, of course, as pertains to
Korea. And
coin toss odds on the Fed moving to the
upside this year is now what markets are
looking at. Garfield Reynolds, who leads
our M Live coverage, is with us right
now. Garf,
take us through right now. Cross-asset
……（中部抽样）……
move as expected isn't an encouraging if
Now we've got potential for a hike and
this is going to have a long-term impact
shock to assets and then you know much
quite sure
US yields are at the highest in months.
central banks and others are still going
to get out you can get out quickly.
haven left.
China Development Forum in Beijing with
amount of events that are happening
The open claw story, how, you know,
earnings, Yvonne is pointing out as
week. Art Basel of course is kicking
does not seek trade surplus and will
Engle. Yeah, just wrap us what we heard
first two months of this year exports
Qiang did address that. He has said,
he said is China never seeks a trade
uh sort of presenting itself as sort of
Together,
It collects, I should say, not pays. It
further regulatory action or any
speak to Pepsico's Asia Pacific CEO
It is a really a whole
multi-year basis. We're definitely
know, meeting with Chinese officials. So
couple of minutes. Stay tuned for that.
They've jacked it up from 77. They now
talking about you know these earnings
stocks could also be taking a hit here
and all these kind of big tech.
to speak in a couple of minutes.
the FT, which is late last week, was it
maybe still now waking up to that
know, if Iran reopens those straight up
300 Shanghai Composite uh nearly 2%
they say about the potential for margins
falling below 25,000 for the Hang Seng
of whipsaw when it comes to oil prices
mixed picture across some of these oil
Just given the fact that gold prices
is a whole wholesale deleveraging we're
Uh, rest of the region, it's everything
are are likely going to be
across the region. Let's cross over to
implications on Asian economies,
proportion of their energy needs. The
economies more closely. But here's the
climbing. How are investors looking at
propelled it through the 5,000 number.
energy impact may be limited, but of
London. What are you hearing from market
China up 11%, good, but exports from
of the oil supply shock? That's the
don't have a date to give you, but I do
that's been said before. It's a tough
China. Yeah, well, this is the irony.
clear. If it's cost driven, it's not the
High standards are a good thing. I think
actions to prevent the listing of more
would say it's modest, but clearly what
how it's going to impact the market. All
Fatih Birol is speaking
intervention might be required?
of petrol, diesel, and jet fuel. Do you
We have our stocks
They have
Okay, yeah, just for our Bloomberg
inflation. I'm guessing they're
Beijing where chief North Asia
ratify the next five-year plan here in
stresses that are being caused in the
the topics of climate through
and and in that sense
diversifying their portfolios earlier on
you know, this this pressure that I
but really to fully understand how long
understand the second part, the
ownership of the securities business
continue to invest in capabilities, in
people to relocate with their families
your position right now? Any change that
the a formal decision by our the Federal
and see. Now, there is a democratic
Is that something that has been
I did see your Asia Pacific head, Iqbal
staying close to clients navigating this
in Beijing and of course at the Milken
down if you go directionally.
the the thick of the this week. Depends,
here right now. We'll bring you the
or transportation sector.
from the regions that countries thought
try and figure out where oil prices go.
came through was just the impact this
you talked about, Asia really is sitting
situation in Iran. And in fact, we are
are selling off here today. The only
gold to wobble and at this point the
several times every time the market
Taiwan is also coming under pressure 2%
10s, you have the 10s of course in Japan
of red out there, Lanting.
hedge fund, they're talking about
and hedging and also adding alternative
the most pain points here right now
below 4,000. So, now people are talking
behind me? I really want to highlight
tankers. So, no dry bulk,
are the refineries, right? And the
get through. You are getting some
does not. But you are getting at least a
of exports around that area. So
So oil markets today open mixed. I think
start to heat up between both sides,
physical or more tangible, it's probably
its Gulf neighbors, because flows can
conflict continues to ensue.
shouldn't come as a surprise uh because
Strait of Hormuz would last. And
short, there is still oversupply in the
disruptions in their business, plus of
seen when it comes to the infrastructure
seen
course just overall risk assets today
leaders in the new technology. Our
you discuss with Lisa Su in Seoul?
Korea. And then, she kind of agreed on
can run fast and efficiently on AMD
quite small with only I think about 10
Then, which can be like a
said, right? So, Korean uh we we are
like frontier model is going to build.
angles. First of all, how can you build
technology
serve our model on their chip very very
pack? Right. Let me just explain what is
we advance in second and third round,
How are we going to how are we going to
All right, definitely a very exciting
commodities are doing as we go into that
is talking about
kind of transition into electrification?
release more reserves potentially as we
constraints as well. This is Bloomberg.
prices are likely to stay high for the
Beijing and talking about the prospects
we are inching closer to that one day
China for 2026. 0.7% for CPI, PPI
Stephen Engle. He joins us live now from
of Fortescue Metals who joins us now
iron ore demand?
long-term stability in moments of crisis
you seeing going forward into this year
in China. Uh on the demand for our
away from an oil-based economy. And we
you gaming out your contingency plans if
And you can take the most educated guess
In the next 2 years, we'll be completely
now an expansive distance between us and
product mix changing given these
Um and as you've said, we've concluded
four interesting projects in our own
um position we've taken to extend the
well on track to deliver. And then
foremost um at the center of what we're
green electrons to our own um backyard
it tied to more of a domestic benchmark,
iron ore sector. Um however, our
We've put $6.2 billion in the ground to
turn contentious like it's done with
I think it's been conflated around the
……（接近结尾）……
really in Beijing about what to do in
the face of rising cost pressures. And
we did speak with the APAC CEO, Anne
Tse, about how really
geopolitical pressures and cost
pressures are really just forcing them
to source their ingredients locally. She
spoke to us exclusively in Beijing.
Well, it is a really a whole
ecosystem that we manage with very close
partners. We are mostly hedged. We have
our facility and our various commodities
hedged. And then we also have a very
local sourcing program. In fact, 95% of
our locally
sourced ingredients are done local. And
then we also have
you know, very solid program that we
actually work with our know, partners
that we actually manage on a multi-year
basis. How far out are you hedged on
certain key ingredients? I mean, I I
think you one of your biggest crops that
you buy is potatoes locally, uh but I
mentioned sugar, and then there's the
fertilizer. We don't know how long this
uh turmoil is going to last. Yeah, I
know. We are we are definitely um you
know, watching the situation very, very
closely. Um you know, in fact, we are
one of the largest potato grower uh our
uh partners who are local growers. So,
uh we are very confident that, you know,
uh we are very resilient when it comes
to uh you know, upstream supply.
Well, we talked you know, broadly about
innovation that you've implemented, but
how specifically do you use AI?
We use AI in every part of the value
chain, really. I mean, if we uh think
about at the very upstream agro, we use
uh our tech to help us uh do precision
uh agriculture. So, uh the irrigation,
the fertilization, all this will be done
with precision using AI to help us uh to
track the crops. Certainly, in the
factory, we're using AI and digital
twins for us to drive precision,
quality, and then obviously productivity
in the value chain. We're using AI to
help us uh scout our consumer new
trends, uh social listening, and then
we're using AI to help us uh create uh
and mass added and mass customized our
consumer material, as well. So, it it is
done every part uh in the value chain.
How about food manufacturing though? It
helps with efficiency, but does that
mean fewer people?
It is not absolutely fewer people, uh
but it's actually the people are being
uh upskilled, and then they are deployed
across more facility. Remember, we have
uh you know, five manufacturing plant in
China over the last 5 years. We were
able to uh service these plants without
having to add a whole lot of people, but
then we at the same time, we are
actually upskilling our folks. Are you
going to be adding more factories in
China, or just making those existing
five more efficient? We will be making
the five more efficient Uh for the short
time because it is quite a bit of
capacity that we added over the last
couple of years, but the market is huge.
So, we will be adding more in the future
as we see the demand show up.
Looking at the crisis we are in
Asia is at the forefront
of this crisis.
I started
today with Australia. I am having this
event and afterwards with the Prime
Minister.
Tomorrow I am flying to Tokyo
to meet the Mrs. Prime Minister.
Maybe afterwards another Asian
country because this part of the world
is at the forefront.
And that was the IEA executive director
Fatih Birol there speaking at an event
hosted by the Australian National Press
Club in Canberra there. Talking about
the vulnerabilities of course in this
region when it comes to the supply
constraints, that certainly is one thing
to watch. Take a look at what comes to
Brent prices. We basically have
come off from the initial lows and we're
back to session highs here as well, back
to 112 levels for Brent here. Of course,
we're watching very closely of course
movers, but it is risk off across the
board here. Coal stocks though are
certainly is going to be maybe the
beneficiary of all this as well just
given that you know given the energy
constraints, does that boost the use of
coal? That certainly is what we're
seeing with some of these Chinese coal
stocks here and we leave you with pork
stocks as well given the margin
pressures
as of course the costs worsen.