TITLE: Brent Oil Surges Again as Iran War Impact Deepens | The China Show 3/12/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5757  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-12T11:17:27+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DvdFUW1yOwc
SHA256: c3e77c645b1a853277c3e143fd278f94d093051a83fae7c36df8408d58b9fb89

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] 7/10 of 1%. The usual
  [2%] PetroChina are up about 1 and 1/2 to 2%
  [2025] background our 2025 adjusted EBITDA is a
  [1.6%] Pacific is now lower by 1.6%. I might
  [60%] million barrels. It's about 60% filled,
  [6%] 6% moves in in some of these regional
  [15%] some 15% year-to-date though of late.
  [5%] shares down some 5%. Yeah, just a brief
  [2024] significant improvement versus 2024.
  [10%] this 10% surge in Brent prices.
  [2.50] as well, I mean, it's around $2.50 a
  [4%] some 4% here this morning. What this
  [13%] again another 12 to 13%. Uh, and then
  [24000] futures as well. 24,000 we've taken that
  [3.2] it's 3.2 trillion rupiah.
  [500%] times or about 500% growth over the year
  [2.1%] ended the year 2.1% versus 1.1% a year
  [1.1%] ended the year 2.1% versus 1.1% a year
  [7.5%] Um on the GTV side, it has grown 7.5%
  [2021] briefly, you know, to 2021, we laid the
  [2022] And then in 2022, we launched credit
  [2023] We followed that up in 2023 with
  [2026] 2026, and we think it will continue to
  [10.7] would have a market value of about $10.7
  [40%] &gt;&gt; And that's 40% up year-to-date. So, if
  [1.8] industry with about 1.8 trillion in it,
  [4.5] national target of annual growth of 4.5
  [1970] happened in the 1970s when you got the
  [99.73] 99.73. So we're about 25 cents short now
  [159.24] 159.24

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong. You're watching the
China Show. I'm Yvonne Man with David
Ingles.
markets in greater China. Let's [music]
get to your top stories today. Asian
stocks extending a volatile week as oil
climbs yet again. As you can see, we're
close [music] to 100 again on Brent. You
have this escalating Middle East war
outweighing a plan by some nations to
release crude reserves. [music]
also hurting investor sentiment. A wave
of redemptions [music] forcing firms
like Morgan Stanley to cap withdrawals
from their multi-billion dollar funds.
Also ahead, Chinese tech stocks in focus
increasingly popular OpenClaw AI agent.
employee was detained after Hong Kong
authorities raided his office and that
of fellow broker Citic Securities.
themselves. It could be a bit of an ugly
morning here today when it comes to
Asian markets. You add kind of the
concerns around $100 oil. Once again,
here we go again. Um, despite what we're
hearing from the IEA, from the US about
releasing strategic reserves, it's not
really doing much for the oil price here
right now. And then you add, you know,
the OpenClaw warnings. You add about
private credit. You add about this raid
of brokerages in Hong Kong. It just
spells like bad news today. Yeah, just
really not a lot of any good news today
that we can sink our teeth into at least
on a sort of macro level. And it's, you
know, you tie everything together and
you get a market where 100 in Brent, you
know, 160 on dollar yen.
Um, you have the credit space acting up,
right? So, whether that's private
credit, wide spreads are widening when
you look at IG and high yield obviously
from a very, very tight starting point
as well. And, you know, it you
extrapolate that and is it is our our
growth forecasts currently too
optimistic? Do we need Are we poised to
see some earnings downgrades as it
pertains to equity markets and you know
how far is a recession still a massive
tail risk at this point in time,
especially if oil remains at a hundred
for a prolonged period of time? I I
think it's interesting.
The BI folks there
Ziad
in the Middle East
Ziad
you know when they talk about it's not
about intensity anymore. It is still
about duration of how long that Strait
of Hormuz is going to shut down and
they've been changing their models
saying one month of closure Brent could
hit 105 but they're talking if we do hit
three months
of basically effectively closure there
we're talking 164 levels for Brent here
which which sounds just insane at this
point but
as we continue to see these mixed
messages from the US side of things of
how this is going to end I think you
know volatility is here to stay and
we're going to be talking about this for
some time unless there is something in
the in the in the works here to put
things into an end. Yeah, and how how
quickly does it come to an end right
because there's a duration mismatch
between say these massive reserves being
released into the market and when people
actually feel that and get that supply.
repaired right which could take months
as well. Yeah. Um but yes that's just to
say markets are on fairly weak footing
right now when you look at the risk
appetite and the premium that's been
built into the markets on the back of
everything everyone and I just mentioned
here.
So yes we are closing in again on a
hundred bucks on Brent crude. We were
closer about an hour back
when things opened on Brent 160 is on
the cards question mark. We are closer
certainly to that level. We have some
key technical levels though to get over
as we approach 160 on dollar yen. It is
that familiar dance though across these
markets where oil is up yields are up on
the back of inflation expectations.
Bonds are obviously not doing well.
There we go on your screens. 11 basis
points in the Aussie 10-year yield.
We're getting Singapore also coming
online. I'm looking at my screen.
Singapore 2 years up seven basis points.
The dollar is again doing the dance to
the upside. And when it does that, this
is what happens to equity markets. We're
on offer, but the silver lining though,
just to note, is that we're really not
seeing the extent of the losses on
Monday, right? So, it's mostly still an
oil and an FX story and a rate story,
not so much an equity market story.
Going into the open today, Shanghai all
coming up on your screens. A50 futures
and dollar China given this resurgence.
Dollar that we're seeing going into this
Thursday open 25 minutes away. Yeah, and
I think it goes back There was a great
interview that I think Surveillance did
with Jeff Currie from Carlyle.
There's no amount of policy out there
that is going to be enough to stop the
ascent of oil prices cuz it's not just
the headline numbers of how many
millions of barrels that they're going
to be able to release. It's about flow
rates and how quickly they can actually
do that. And and you know, this is
probably why you're seeing oil traders
really ignore some of the the the
signals that we're hearing from the IEA,
from President Trump on those measures
to stabilize prices. Let's take a
listen.
IEA countries have unanimously
decided to launch the largest ever
release of emergency oil stocks in our
agency's history.
IEA countries will be making 400 million
barrels of oil available.
I repeat,
400 million barrels of oil available to
the market to offset the supply lost
through the effective closure of the
straight.
The markets holding up well.
I figured it would be hit a little bit,
but we were hit
probably less than I thought, and we'll
be back on track in a pretty
short while. Prices are coming down very
substantially. Oil will be coming down.
That's just a uh
uh that's just a matter of war
that happens where you can almost
predict it.
Yeah, that we're still waiting for uh
oil to really come down as the president
was putting it there. Are the US also
releasing 172 million barrels from its
strategic petroleum reserves? To put
everything together for us out of
Singapore as you can see on your screens
now, our oil trading reporter RONG WEI
Neo is is here with us right now. Uh so
obviously oil prices are again melting
up. Uh talk to us about the latest
developments that are effectively
creating these conditions right now.
Well, of course um all eyes are on the
release of strategic reserves that was
just approved uh by the IEA as we've
heard earlier. And as President Trump
has said, he hopes that oil prices will
go down. But unfortunately, at today's
open, things doesn't quite uh things
didn't quite swing that way. Now, uh to
break it down to break down the numbers,
although the US has uh said that they
will release about 170 million barrels
of uh oil from the reserves, um as
Yvonne has mentioned earlier, all these
will actually take time to flow into the
market. There is kind of like a lead
time uh for them to do so. They have to
complete sales, and then there's the
logistics as well. And also to put
things into perspective, right now, um
US's strategic petroleum reserves
currently stands about 400 over 400
million barrels. It's about 60% filled,
but you can imagine that the amount that
they plan to release is nearly half of
what they already have. So, um I believe
that a lot of people in the market,
market watchers, are looking at this.
They're not just digesting the headline
number, but they're also uh taking a
wider perspective on what this release
actually means. And being strategic
reserves, being strategic reserves, they
ultimately have to be filled at a later
date. So, um all that would also uh
weigh on the traders' minds as well.
Yeah, and when there was also a headline
that came through about Iraq also
halting their their ports being
completely stopping operations there. I
……（中部抽样）……
mean, it seems like the supply situation
That's because two tankers were hit
oil could actually be hit. And the with
more clarity currently on the situation
It's unclear whether
we're seeing on social media on social
released its own version of open claw.
last 12 hours or so, but essentially
as well, I mean, it's around $2.50 a
to garner regulatory scrutiny. Yeah,
So,
read people's reviews, and and and and
particular has been that this isn't
technology certainly one thing to to
through as well here. It's been quite
we've been talking about. It is that
what who's reporting? Do you know, Dave?
Hong Kong. We'll get to that in in a
not doing as well going into this this
is to look at the investment
we are going to see some investment
of the liberal order, but it doesn't
most
Korea,
time. So, so we are not negative on
a bit, but China itself uh, has been
but it is also what you see uh, in the
around. Uh, Frank Benzimra there, head
given our source and our scoop about
heard from Minimax uh and Alibaba and
PetroChina are up about 1 and 1/2 to 2%
98, 99 on Brent. Uh, dollar yen is at
is weighing on these risk assets here
be a really bright story after those
region, you could say. HS Tech uh, is on
see the private sector engage in this in
here given these risk off moves that
we saw when it came to car sales
if you're curious where we are.
Benzimra, head of Asia equity strategy
global emerging market, it went up very
be maybe at a peak right now. I mean,
So, that's also another consideration
relationship with the US, there is a
Pharmaceutical is also one sector that
one pocket of the market, but it's
that remain very much into the into the
and wealth management editor more on the
And can we deduce that those could be
week we also reported that they
scoop and saying that this could be a
this industry, that they'll be tracking
story as Lulu was just pointing out
This is Bloomberg.
uh in a moment. Joining us now is the
Yeah. Well, thank you very much. I'm
coming into this year and hence our
What I mean what I'm wondering what sort
increase, and that would reduce the
Uh even on the on-demand service side,
on-demand, and that's a good thing, of
at this. Um so, one of it is we look at
with with the government to to try to
Um
as well as the fintech side, GoPay. On
Indonesia. The affluent consumer segment
quite a lot of transactions given that,
talk about fintech.
foundation by really overhauling and
just wondering, how are you integrating
what is it that we can we can do
KYC processes which as you know is very
processes. Two major core processes that
here. When does the last financial
next goal. And we have we have a
Indonesia we are regulated by the local
Thank you so much for for for joining us
that we're following for you this
is said to be planning to price its US
Bloomberg's been told the actual price
bit of a breather [laughter]
the volatility out there. Uh so yeah,
almost Chinese markets become almost of
It is. And I mean, we we first need to
Let alone 150, right? And some of the
That's why you're seeing stocks are on
is ignoring it at the moment, Dave.
rips higher is is still a key question
the first hour it was over.
the day, the thing that matters to
market that um you know, you can listen
well,
really, really difficult to kind of tell
So, it's really kind of difficult to see
to see in order to, you know, bring
of this right now. Jill, thank you. Jill
talking about 3 months where effectively
Here we go. The last 24 hours have seen
redeem of course more than the vehicles
segment here and I can tell you that
And now these are much more skittish
So, I I I heard you mention some of the,
And they have actually, you know,
plane turbulence, right? So, so we know
confidence. it's a crisis of really bad
are tied together. If we if we get into
the public markets, we can see that
have to keep an eye on how redemptions
um yeah, uh lots to get into here.
choreographed event. So, the parliament
is expected to come to China to meet
you, Mim Mim. It's a great honor to be
Trump and Xi meet?
This uh
little bit of perspective.
have enough income, or they are
not easy, and I'm I'm curious because we
also broadcast to the whole public. That
Trump's argument that China is
wouldn't think of that as a short-term
fine with exports. We are also putting
down, right? And the volatility
agree it's a negative shock. The market
price will increase. Now, China is
know, some,
bantering earlier on that the, uh,
Hormuz as a precautionary,
1 million barrels a day of a money oil
when it comes to Oman. According to our
that is exported from, uh, this key
remaining ports through which Middle
morning and bring you the latest when it
just the supply disruptions that we are
continues to be up double digits here
warns the damage from the war could take
even in the UAE. I can just The list
disruption
hoarding.
Oman which the I'm looking at Brent not
sort of flip uh when it comes to these
ago on the back of their earnings,
Philippines for example, gas prices are
out uh the 100 level. Uh Uh, this is
towards the 97 handle, but as you can
important thing as everyone we talked to
barrels a day of Omani oil that it that
you know, the correlation from stocks to
to India, you know, they're overweight,
So, we're watching all this very, very
verify that. Go ahead.
hump, I think the price action and
this equity market sell-off that seems
contained in the Strait of Hormuz. It's
lot more sensitive to that kind of risks
have, you know, brokerages in China
sell-off in Korea last Wednesday,
macro risks globally. And of course,
in money market funds.
does remain operational. We haven't
going to watch EMX, for example now
with Strait of Hormuz are much larger
lows there. The currency market and the
Aussie 10-year yield 10 basis points at
ships are being asked to stay clear of
on Wednesday, while others were
deepening and now threatening oil
uh to Budnyan on its Red Sea coast. So,
forecast coming in through from Vivek
In other words, you get to a point on
here we are yet again with three digits
is pricing in here at the moment. We'll
It's not happening today. It happened
……（接近结尾）……
sensitive to headline risk as we speak
here.
Middle East. You're also hearing the
rhetoric from President Trump which I
think the market has is is now kind of
ignoring, right? When he's talking about
the US is looking to finish the job in
this Iran campaign.
Meanwhile, you're hearing from Iran
according to our sources
that if there is in fact some sort of
ceasefire the US must guarantee neither
it the US Mhm. nor Israel will strike in
the country in the future. So it's not
just a US story, it's also what the
Israel
and really what their you know
circumstance and perspective is on all
this as well.
But you know, when it comes to Iran side
of things, we have not seen them in any
way try any light up in sight when it
comes to their sort of attacks. So,
certainly you know, there is both sides
seem very far apart and any sort of
ceasefire at this moment just based on
what we're seeing across the headlines.
earlier on had really good context here,
right? Because it's unclear to many
people still what a win will look like
and what that how do we know if the US
has won? We know in terms of military
supremacy that is on that side, but you
know, how do we
know with any conclusion that they have
won? The other thing that Jill pointed
out which I think is is is equally if
not more important, even if the US and
Iran somehow managed to head back to the
negotiating table over the short term,
the question Iran would then ask
according to Jill is that what
guarantees can the US give that Israel
will also align itself along those
lines. So, we have a lot of moving parts
here too to get into. John Herskovitz is
with us right now to take you through
the latest here. John, what do we know
about what's going on? A lot of breaking
news suddenly here across the markets.
Um some worries in Oman where the
that involves the closure of the port.
This follows what happened with attacks
on two vessels in
Iraq's oil processing port port. And
this has driven Brent crude up above
100. So, the
$100 barrel. So, the relief that came
from the release of these strategic
petroleum reserves, a coordinated
release, has quickly been offset with
developments in the in the region,
attacks on ports, closures, and this has
just added to concerns of what's going
on with oil and oil prices are going up.
And and John, it's interesting, too,
that
what what is
What's telling about this Oman situation
is that it's not just what we're seeing
in terms of disruptions in the Strait of
Hormuz. We also have to track what's
going on outside of this key waterway as
well, when, you know, this is where a
large portion of a lot of these Middle
Eastern countries are are shipping or at
least exporting that crude, too. So, it
seems like things are are getting worse
and not better.
Exactly. You're exactly right. I mean,
the what we see going on in Oman and
Iraq show that this is this is beyond
the Strait of Hormuz, that other ports
are also at risk, that this is
region-wide, and it's going to have It
looks like it's going to have a profound
effect on the shipment of oil to places
around the world. I'm in Japan now, a
key importer of oil, especially oil that
transports through the Strait of Hormuz.
There are concerns about this in markets
in Asia around the world. So,
and the worries about what was going on
in Hormuz are spreading. And we had a a
Bloomberg Economics that did a a
modeling of what may happen if there's a
1-month closure or a 3-month closure of
Hormuz, and it it means prices above
$100 and perhaps approaching $130, $140,
or more if the if the closure of Hormuz
is prolonged.
Yeah, I think it's 160 and change, 168,
I believe, from Ziad's team. John, thank
you so much. We scrambled you to camera.
Thank you. [music] We appreciate it on
this breaking news. Brent is now back
above 100 bucks, 166 right now on Brent.
India comes online the next hour, and I
imagine this that market will take
that's taken place. That's it from us
here on the China show. We'll see you
all tomorrow. Lots more coverage on the
breaking news coming through on
Bloomberg Television. Keep it here.