TITLE: What We’ve Learned From 10 Days of War
CHANNEL: The Daily
DURATION_S: 2335  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-10T14:23:26+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4UtAbu3gL-M
SHA256: 8c0fbf0a66118e9ccee3449acadfb0561f71c27d5109ea1ea23f0bda406d6a1b

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [4000] than 4,000 targets over this time
  [90%] fired by Iran by about 90% on the first
  [83%] fired by about 83%.
  [50%] the Iranians still have as much as 50%
  [1300] has said 1,300 Iranian civilians have
  [1991] covered, the first Gulf War in 1991,

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
From The New York Times, I'm Michael
Barbaro. This is The Daily.
Over the past few days, what began as a
relentless US-Israeli military assault
on Iran
From Lebanon I with my family live
of Beirut. We are having to wake up in
the middle of the night at 4:00 a.m.
missiles and bombs constantly hitting
our neighborhoods and our people. To the
United Arab Emirates
interceptors and that's when we went
with my family to the basement [music]
to get some shelter.
To Saudi Arabia
We were all on the plane. I came from
Everything was fine to go. They told us
to get off. They said it wasn't safe to
fly cuz of the missiles. So [music] we
all thought we were going to be
stranded. As the conflict has
transformed into a region-wide crisis
and now the impacts of that war are
going global. A major shipping route for
oil has effectively been shut down amid
this war sending shockwaves through the
markets with as the disruption of the
world's oil market spreads from the
Middle [music] East to Europe, Asia, and
North America.
The price of crude oil has risen above
Hormuz is effectively closed and Iranian
fuel depots are battered. [music]
Today
Eric Schmitt on what we're learning
about all the players involved in this
conflict from [music] a week of war.
It's Tuesday, March 10th.
Eric, thank you for making time for us.
We appreciate it. Sure, of course.
So, we wanted to speak with you one week
or so into this war about what has been
accomplished or has failed to be
accomplished by all the major
governments involved in this conflict.
And the way I wanted to loosely organize
our conversation was by starting off
with what has been done to Iran by the
US and Israel in the first half of this
episode. And then in a second half, walk
through what Iran in retaliation has
done to the region and the world, if
that makes sense to you. That makes a
lot of sense. Okay. So, with that
blessing,
we will proceed. We know quite well at
this point that the United States'
objectives in this conflict have
whipsawed, starting with
the mission of getting rid of Iran's
nuclear program, then it became outright
regime change, then it was the US being
willing to work with regime insiders to
this latest demand from President Trump
for total regime surrender. So, overall,
a pretty incoherent set of messages.
Given that,
let's focus on what we know has actually
happened on the ground. The targets that
the US and Israel have struck and what
shape that has left the regime in. And I
think we can get pretty detailed and
specific here. So, where do you want to
start? Okay. So, about 10 days into this
military campaign, the Israeli and
American militaries have struck more
than 4,000 targets over this time
period. Yeah. So, this includes,
obviously, the first day strike that
killed the supreme leader, the main
political goal, I think, of Israel and
to some extent the United States. But,
from a military standpoint, of these
4,000 targets, they've really focused
heavily on eliminating Iran's air
defenses. These are the surface-to-air
missiles that could attack American
bombers or Israeli jets, those kind of
things. So, they've gone after that to
give the Israeli and American air forces
freedom of movement in the skies.
ballistic missiles, which actually go up
into space and come back down again.
They arc back down against the
long-range, very fast-moving targets
that cause a lot of damage. The other
main focus has been to strike the
Iranian navy. These are the ships and
boats that can basically interfere with
commerce in the Persian Gulf and
elsewhere. So, the United States
believes that they've sunk much of the
Iranian navy and thus eliminated much of
the threat, at least from their major
navy vessels, of commerce in the region.
Right. Brett, something like 42 Iranian
ships have been sunk. Yeah. The number
keeps increasing because they've been
focusing on that. The threat still
remains from Iran's small boats, but the
main navy strikes has been very
important.
And then lastly, the United States has
tried to go after Iran's formidable
drone program. These are the same drones
that Iran has manufactured and have been
used by the Russians in Ukraine. These
are formidable because as much as the
United States has air defenses against
these and a wide array of things from
jamming to small weapons to actually
counter drone drones, if you will. They
have so many of these drones that the
defenses just can't be everywhere at
once. Mhm. So, how does this all add up
after about 10 days of war from both the
Israeli and the American air forces? The
Pentagon basically believes that they've
reduced the number of missiles being
fired by Iran by about 90% on the first
day. Huh. And the number of drones being
fired by about 83%.
But, in confidential briefings to
Congress late last week,
Pentagon officials told lawmakers that
the Iranians still have as much as 50%
of their overall missile fleet still
intact. Now, that's getting hammered
away every day. So, by now it's probably
chipped down a little bit more below
that. But, more important is the drones
are probably even more than that. You
know, they can still manufacture these
drones at this point. They still have
huge stockpiles of these. So, even
though the United States and Israel pose
significant damage on these stockpiles,
the Iranians still have a fair amount
left. And that's the race that we're in
here. And Eric, when you say race, just
help me understand what you mean there.
Race between what? So, the race here,
Michael, is between Iran's ability to
fire off as many of these missiles and
drones as possible to inflict as much
pain as possible. Physical pain,
economic pain, political pain versus the
United States and Israel's ability to
knock out that ability to fight back.
That's the race that's underway. How
quickly can the Iranians fire enough of
this stuff off to really increase the
pain to its maximum point. And how
quickly can the US and Israel suppress
that
Iranian ability?
Got it. And presumably the US has enough
munitions to go longer than Iran.
Well, the munitions has been a key
question because some kinds of munitions
are in shorter supply than others. This
was very important at the beginning of
the war because the United States was
having to use very expensive what they
call standoff weapons. That is expensive
missiles that they can fire from outside
of the range of Iranian air defenses.
We've now shifted into a different phase
of the air campaign with most of these
air defenses destroyed or degraded, the
US now can come in and drop other kinds
of bombs, satellite and laser-guided
bombs that are much more plentiful and
cheaper and that are much greater
stores.
What's in short supply is what's on the
ground, however, the interceptors. These
are specially made missiles that are
meant to protect against those ballistic
missiles and other cruise missiles that
we talked about earlier that Iran is
firing. That's what's in short supply.
The US military says it has enough to
protect its bases, but many of the Gulf
countries
are finding they don't have enough to
protect their own populations and
they're pressing the United States and
other countries to see if they can
provide more on an emergency basis.
A lot of what we've been talking about
so far, Eric, are the military targets
of Iran and the United States.
But there are additional targets that
are a little more ambiguous and I'm
thinking about over the past couple of
days strikes on something like 30
Iranian oil depots.
And I want to understand whether that
should be seen as a military target or
is it more a civilian infrastructure
target and what the rationale is.
Yeah, no, you you put your finger on a
very important point, Michael, because
……（中部抽样）……
this has highlighted one of the rare
struck these oil depots because these
purpose and so they want to take out
this and the Americans were okay with
and create this horrific image of black
spiking. Right.
yesterday very clearly and apparently
were okay to a point with the Israelis
and basically created a problem not just
just kind of helps drive up these oil
in nature,
the targets have veered into more
around it. I'm curious how we should
precise, and if this is the right word
Well,
some of these strikes, they maybe
also killed civilians in the process.
to the base is an elementary school
investigation, which the United States
happen?
they had? Because this school actually
And then sometime ago, it was split off
Exactly. And this sadly has happened
clear as they look at the satellite
running around in fields and things like
school which is just, you know, a couple
might have happened.
know? I believe Iran's envoy to the UN
will be disputed throughout the
that certainly we at The New York Times
civilian casualties on the ground. The
they do all they can to avoid putting
know, in any kind of war, any kind of
is it a war crime? Or if it's a mistake,
mistake. A war crime would be something
women and children, and that would be
the cases of civilian casualties and
screwed up.
primarily on Iran's military and the
that the onslaught has failed to topple
though it has changed many times, was to
not appear that the regime is in any
that, but it looks like
States knew this even going into this
kind of military operation short of some
major air campaign like we're seeing now
entrenched. They've thought about this
and at that day has come now, and now
decades.
that it's now waging against Iran was
conflict.
various intelligence agencies, that was
military history of an air campaign
ground, or you have to stir the
government such as it is, but by itself,
the president said he wanted to do.
and its determination that the regime
new supreme leader, the son of the
direction of the regime? What do we
than his father. He's very close to the
operates in Iran, and it shows the
only on the military level as they
political level in choosing the next
defiant choice that the Iranians could
officials have said they
other people in mind who obviously
be more pragmatic that could work with
died. Yeah, they either died or they got
Trump administration thought they could
you know, went in and seized the
who's been so far working very closely
Venezuela, and the regime, you know,
interests of the country. So, it may
influenced the administration as it
most hardline kind of defiant choice
you described as the regime's remaining
permanence or its unlikeliness to
use the word resilience rather than
in its battered state that so long as it
stage, it seems less and less likely
strike on the elementary school and the
population to see
I think that's right and you certainly
against this government.
or insurgencies in any part of the
I think what you've seen, as you said,
supporters and now they'll rally behind
States and Israel. [music]
Iran has inflicted across the region and
So, Eric, help us understand Iran's
hinted at across the region and the
elements of Iran's retaliation seemed
direction. That's right. I think this is
of missiles and drones and any other
all within missile range of Iran, as is
this conflict, to inflict as much pain
against American military bases in these
for instance, in the United Arab
infrastructure. You're seeing attacks on
of strikes to as far away as striking
that was knocked down. The idea here
the United States and Israel to wrap up
the idea that these seemingly at times
embassies, consulates, office buildings,
United States to end the war.
the port in Kuwait on March 1st that
Now you've got Americans coming back in
Air Force Base. Right.
see, as you said, in this kind of
political uncertainty as possible.
basically can't guarantee the safety of
outside the Strait of Hormuz, this
for all this commerce. So, you have the
forcing the hand of these various
for the most part, publicly saying they
solution, but now their countries and
countries, it's countries in Europe who
which had said they would not
having to help protect their civilians
saying, is for Iran to, in a very real
Europe into the conflict, so that all
to President Trump, "Let's be honest,
we're experiencing here, we're asking
Iranians have a code name for this. They
themselves as a mad man and basically
saying this is actually backfiring on
countries that were originally sitting
"Okay, we're not only going to allow
which had very briefly denied US access
in and if need be, we may actually
taking strikes of their own Right.
say the flip side of regionalizing the
Iran. But, I do want to fact check you
I'm thinking of the UAE, Qatar, Bahrain,
in a military sense? Are they actually
it's a good point. But, rather than
weighing in at least in a defensive way
can help protect their forces. This
same. If you have these kind of allies
least a few days ago was left solely up
of our conversation you brought up the
back and that the US Israel have to
which is the region's tolerance for pain
collectively enter the war and perhaps
second race
pain of your civilians being under
driven up by this tremendous attack and
countries in the region and their
here again, how much pain now can the
can they take? How much will they
seeing it right now this week. And as we
this lasting for weeks before they
painful for American consumers who are
noting that Iranian leaders are talking
because of this war, you just wait and
President Trump at this point on the
attacks. And if it means four and
for the Iranian government.
this conflict. Iran is one of the
strong relationship with Russia. And
with Iran in this conflict. But how
Israel, and their allies in the region?
providing intelligence to the Iranians,
troops in the region. Now,
Iranians for many years. Obviously,
intelligence officials I talked to,
this. This wasn't going to change the
made it unlikely they'd be able to
turning out to be one of the great
watching that global price of oil go up.
as he spreads it around. Well, and
……（接近结尾）……
talk about the military in these kind of
World War II
ways that he talks, this bravado that he
and Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth like
to talk about things. Maximum lethality,
not tepid legality,
violent effect, not politically correct.
We're going to raise up warriors. He
seems to revel in the violence of war to
extent I've never heard a Defense
Secretary talk about this. Only the
United States of America could lead
this, only us.
But when you add the Israeli Defense
Forces, a devastatingly capable force,
the combination is sheer destruction
for our radical Islamist Iranian
adversaries.
toast and they know it.
Or at least, soon enough, they will know
it.
We are punching
Which is exactly how it should be. I
mean these are all kind of phrases you
know that you know they're trying to
deflect the ugliness of conflict and
underscore kind of the glorification of
their victory so far without really
addressing some of the harder subjects
like where does this all end?
You know that's the question we still
haven't heard from Trump. We don't know
what the ultimate end game here is. And
what does that tell you or what should
that tell us about the nature of this
conflict and the people who are behind
it? Well certainly it talks about that
at the senior most levels at least at
the civilian ranks of the Pentagon
they're all in on this fight.
That seems to be the atmosphere that's
cresting at the Pentagon and to some
extent at the White House at least it
was going into [music] this conflict.
Now again maybe 10 days after you know
some of the reality is starting to sink
in that this is not going to be as easy
as they thought it might have been and
that in the end may leave different
military legacy for the president than I
think he first envisioned when he
ordered this attack.
Well Eric,
thank you very much. We appreciate it.
Thank you.
On Monday afternoon President Trump sent
his latest conflicting messages about
the duration of [music] the war.
In an interview with CBS he said that
the conflict could be nearing an end.
That remark sent the price of oil
plunging.
But shortly after
Trump told lawmakers in Florida that his
timetable for ending the conflict was
open-ended. We've already won in many
ways but we haven't won enough.
We go forward more determined than ever
to achieve ultimate victory that will
end this long running danger once and
for all. years.
On Monday, the AI company Anthropic sued
the Department of Defense saying that
the government's punishment of the
company exceeded its legal authority.
a supply chain risk and cut off its
access to the military [music] after
Anthropic disagreed with how the Defense
Department should use AI.
In its lawsuit, Anthropic accused the
government of trying to penalize [music]
the company for simply expressing its
views.
And [music]
Both defendants have admitted that they
acted on Saturday because of ISIS.
Federal prosecutors have charged two men
with attempting [music] to support the
Islamic State after they tried to
detonate two explosive devices near the
City's mayor, Zoran Mondani.
Police said that one of the men, [music]
Ibrahim Kayumi, declared his allegiance
to ISIS after his arrest. As Kayumi was
vehicle following his arrest, a person
in the crowd asked why he had done this.
Kayumi responded with ISIS.
Neither of the explosive devices [music]
detonated and no one was injured, but
one of the devices tested positive for a
highly volatile material used in
numerous terrorist [music] attacks over
the past decade.
Today's episode was produced [music] by
Eric Krupke, Rochelle Banja, and Mary
Wilson.
It was edited by Paige Cowen and Liz
Contains music by Marion Lozano and Dan
Powell.
Our theme music [music] is by Wonderly.
This episode was engineered by Alyssa
Moxley.
I'm Michael Barbaro.
See you tomorrow.