TITLE: Now There's a Helium Shortage and It Affects More Than Balloons | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots
DURATION_S: 3160  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-27T08:11:36+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bjc6MgUY0BE
SHA256: d05a30befebec0ee776574619a8c6ab1bc87a2807c762a5581419d365abd01ab

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1000] year. So that implies about $1,000 per
  [1.4] has $1.4 billion of party balloon debt?
  [2018] it like got discontinued in 2018 or
  [1%] helium. That has 1/20 of 1% helium in
  [2016] privatization act in 2016 just about
  [2025] 2025 versus 2016, etc. So, the market
  [100%] harder to mobilize capital. 100% and you
  [2007] 2007 and back then we had a lot more
  [99%] company and like everyone 99% of the
  [1996] I think in 1996, Newt Gingrich got into
  [3000] because there's only about 3,000 of
  [1.3] $1.3 billion.
  [2026] environment and how 2026 looks versus
  [2022] shortage which ended in around 2022 when
  [30%] uh were producing north of 30% of world
  [2011] at this issue in 2011 because my dad was
  [500%] prices went up, you know, 500% in the
  [2000] early 2000s. So uh that's certainly been
  [1960] 1960s. They wrote helium legislation
  [80%] worthless because it's already 80% of
  [40%] production by 40% later this year. We're
  [99.999%] more or less five nines purity, 99.999%

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Now here's something I've learned I have
learned over the years
which is that anytime we are talking
about niche commodities,
um it's often like harder to find
anything resembling spot prices at all
including a lot of the rare earths and
stuff. There's actually literally
nothing on the terminal about helium
pricing and I tell us about why that is.
mean there used to be more markets like
this but uh companies like Bloomberg and
many others have helped to make things a
lot more efficient.
Yeah, in general the price at the price
to the end user it's considered to be
about a 6 billion cubic foot per year
market and worth about $6 billion a
year. So that implies about $1,000 per
MCF to the end user and you know, that's
and and MCF is a thousand cubic feet.
That's the standard denomination that
they use in natural gas.
you know, so that implies that it's a
dollar for one cubic foot. And uh since
you insisted on bringing a helium
balloon into the studio, uh I would fact
check you and say uh what did you pay
for that?
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. And [music] I'm Tracy
Alloway. Tracy, one of the things that
I've been learning over the last few
weeks
that a lot more [music] than oil comes
through. No, for real. Like say you
know, if someone says okay, there's war
breaking out in the Middle East, you
just think about oil, right? And then
that's probably actually where my mind
would typically stop. What's the price
of oil? And we all are watching the
price of oil, but there are a lot of
other things that are sourced from the
region that are critical import. I I'm
not joking. Like I used to have I'm just
saying like I'm laughing because we have
one of those things floating between us.
So speaking of stuff that comes out of
the Gulf region, here's here's one of
those things. Not
probably aluminum also comes out of the
Gulf, but helium.
went out and got a prop. I didn't. One
of our lovely producers did.
I have to say I haven't held a balloon
for a long time and it's surprisingly
entertaining. So okay, while you hold on
to it, I'll go a little bit further
which is I feel bad for the people in
helium because my understanding is that
the helium um has some pretty important
industrial prop uh properties. There's
not a lot of substitutes for it, but
someone says helium and they're like oh,
the clowns are going to be able to make
their funny voices etc.
of the commodities that we talk about on
the show into the studio, I'm going to
seize. So here is some helium.
floating
is an indicator of the fact that it must
have some interesting properties as an
element that perhaps
you know, perhaps have other
applications. I don't know. I mean it
tells you something about it as an
element, right?
initially I was going to take this
balloon and you know, do the thing where
you breathe in the helium and have the
funny voice. Well, I thought for an
audio medium maybe it would work, but
then in the course of researching on
helium, uh I read about apparently it
comes partially from radioactive decay
and so I thought well, maybe maybe I
don't want to be breathing in the
helium. Although I also read that it's
non-toxic. So I don't know. We need to
talk about what helium actually is
clearly. That's right. And we've been
getting requests for a helium episode
ever since there was a headline out
today uh uh Qatar uh some helium
production
um that is not going to that one of
those force majeures or something like
that. I don't know.
Uh whatever or something not coming out.
Anyway, there's been a lot of requests
for a helium episode. We've never done
one. Incidentally, years ago I used to
lift weights with this guy in the East
Village who's like sort of an
entrepreneur and stuff like that.
other things he's one of these guys that
has his like finger hands in everything
and he also had like a helium venture.
And he's like oh, you got to talk to my
friend. One day you guys should do an
episode on helium. And then I got
connected with our guest who we're about
to introduce in a second. And I said
hey, do you know this guy in the East
Village? Cuz okay, maybe like not
everyone in Canada knows each other, but
everyone in um everyone in the helium
industry almost certainly knows each
other. He's like oh yeah, of course I
know that guy uh who used to lift
weights with.
industry which is why we're talking
about it today.
Anyway, what is helium? Why is it
important? Where do we get it? What is
why is it impaired right now? Many
questions that people want answered.
Very excited to say we do have the
perfect guest. We're going to be
speaking with Nick Snyder, founder and
CEO of North American Helium which mines
and sells helium out of Canada. So Nick,
thank you so much for coming on Odd
Lots.
Joe, Tracy, thanks for having me. How
annoyed are you that like if That we
brought a balloon?
company and like everyone 99% of the
time people are just going to think
that's like the thing for balloons and
therefore can't be that important. You
know, I've gotten used to it. I I've got
young kids and
they had a
a exercise at school asking them what
their parents did and they said that I
blow up balloons. So the teachers
definitely think I'm a clown and uh
you know, we've got we all get used to
it. Okay, well why don't we ask in all
seriousness, what are the industrial
applications for helium beyond
entertaining us uh in balloon form? So
the biggest demand source which you've
probably seen in the news a little bit
uh because of the events in Iran is
manufacturing semiconductors. And beyond
that, one of the fastest growing end
uses is for launching rockets for space
exploration and then there's a number of
pretty durable long-standing uses
including
leak detection for everything from every
cell in an electric battery to all sorts
of complex machinery, manufacturing
fiber optics, titanium, MRIs and NMR for
drug discovery. It's you know, pretty
well used across all of technology.
All right, so what is it about the
element helium that gives it these
properties such that it is useful in
what you described as a fairly wide
range of industrial applications? So
what makes it so useful is it's got
three or four things going for it that
are completely unique. One is that it
has the lowest boiling point of anything
in nature. So liquid helium is
uh
about 4° Kelvin. I don't have my uh
you know, conversion in front of me. I
think that's uh
you know, -270
something degrees Celsius. So it's the
coldest substance on Earth. And that's
really important for any sort of
superconducting magnets. Google says
that's -452°
Fahrenheit. So yeah, that's quite cold.
have to fight Fahrenheit versus Celsius
here. We're going to clasp hands with
Kelvin. Anyway, keep going. So just the
boiling point alone makes it very unique
and and important. So if you want to
have something very cold and that's
primarily low temperature physics and
superconductors, you need to use liquid
helium for that. But um the boiling
point is also important for launching
rockets because if you're launching
rockets, you can't pump the liquid
rocket fuel into the engine fast enough
because of the volume is so large. So
you need to pressurize those rockets and
that is primarily done with helium
because it is lightweight, but also it's
the only substance that is non-reactive
that remains a gas at the temperature of
liquid oxygen or liquid kerosene. Hm.
Okay, and where does helium come from?
Well, we we forgot about all the other
important parts of uh what makes helium
unique.
Yeah, yeah, keep going. Yeah, yeah, keep
going. I thought you were done. Yeah,
sorry. Keep going. Yeah, sorry. So it
also in addition to being a very cold
substance as a liquid, it's also
um
……（中部抽样）……
it's a great heat transfer medium. So if
thinks about that with gases, but helium
When they're in that high helium
important in semiconductor manufacturing
to avoid errors uh and also is
Wait, just to be clear on semiconductor
I don't want to get out of my depth, but
there and they need that to be um
the backside of the wafer Right. um you
quickly in semiconductors and I've seen
that sector is growing.
as you said radioactive decay of uranium
unlike any other critical mineral, once
the generation time scales are roughly
millions of years because it's a very
helium deposits and then helium also
gas versus say where you're mining
gas, but most of the world's helium
one you know gigantic field in the US
Iran
sulfide in the gas and because the scale
that thing come from? It's like all
just cuz there's been a lot of a lot of
go exploring for natural gas and I
facility right next to where the deposit
except for the helium because helium is
content in the gas and then you're going
in Algeria that's been on production for
the US mid-continent. But, it is really
during the Cold War looked all over the
And in general you're looking for an
you. That's interesting. So, the
it to escape. But, the existence of
Kazakhstan? I think there's a little bit
unique with a very small helium content.
considered an economic cutoff for the
helium reserve. Once upon a time when
also because that gas would have been
If they're making LNG from the gas
are very high in Europe,
to sell it at the time, what the what
was in it? Where was it and where did it
across Texas and and Oklahoma parts of
you know sort of
and that's why they filled it up with
when it was first found in Kansas.
inert gas well in Kansas and they were
such a small molecule and that's how
about because they recognized that
interesting times in many ways, but an
It's important to understand you can't
years ago. The oil and gas companies
said basically
They're using this for quantum computing
fusion reactors that they're building
into steam and it got so hot that the
and it makes it passively safe. So, the
and everything else and um there's no
later.
the Cold War, helium and tin. Tin is
necessarily. Uh with regard to the
helium reserve was there and they filled
basically owed the government $300
power and it was time to start talking
And uh a bill was quickly passed and uh
$1.4 billion with no regard to the
That's amazing and I feel like we could
you know, maybe you go into the the
molecule, as you've said,
you know, by the way,
probably the fifth in the last 20 years,
canisters of pure helium because I've
threads of the valve um
roughly five times more than a what used
back of a tractor trailer. That that's a
transportation differential a little bit
is I have nothing interesting to say
something.
because you're talking about taking a
truck and put it on a ship. Um
So, it makes it very perishable and it
helium containers that are now stuck
sources to try and get helium out of
of these. I just want to say and I I
things and it's like, yep, we really did
important in small modular reactor. So,
seems to be pretty important. Now,
spot prices at all, including a lot of
it like got discontinued in 2018 or
what is the cost of a ton of helium or
this, but uh companies like Bloomberg
about $6 billion a year. So, that
you know, so that implies that it's a
that's not a cubic foot.
had been trending down since the last
the Russian facility, their Amur Gas
the Ukraine war is that the Russians
had a very large explosion. So, everyone
bringing liquid helium containers to
application. Um there's also sanctions
It's somewhat limited the impact they
isn't it obvious what the helium price
you know, I don't know.
the government was selling the helium
And there's no longer any sort of global
kind of reminds me of um
but the contracts are so custom and
which is more than I would have
point in the market, what supply
about how most of the stuff is selling
uh were producing north of 30% of world
helium container,
uh a leading helium consultant who we've
and the wave hasn't hit yet. And the
energies are thinking about this moment
has come out and we're going to have
of the conversations we've had about
to Javier Blas here at Bloomberg about
look, yeah, we could go looking for new
whether small nominal markets make it
you know, go up or there's a shortage is
um you know, from first principles. If
afford to explore at scale in North
company in terms of we've been focused
critical minerals and niche commodities
millions of dollars to go drill holes in
alternative gases? I guess I don't know
helium?
smaller quantities to serve the end
because of the specialized logistics and
in terms of what was your question about
for people to adapt to an actual helium
lot of helium the way we have in the US.
more argon in welding.
substitution of saying, okay, we still
also seen recycling where
for a cooling loop, you can start to
atmosphere and ship the unit and it
additional substitution at this point
balloons in Europe. I fact-checked that.
seen, which is this really serious like
information, regulation and best
Reddit post someone asking where they
takeaway I have from this conversation I
that must have just obliterated any like
production at that point? 100% that
fission hybrid reactors and he chaired a
get the technology working and uh you
at at the time, you know, put out uh a
And um you know, I sort of compared the
into power plant fuel uh just because of
prices went up, you know, 500% in the
founder and CEO of North American Helium
that price signal? Do you invest more?
in the industry because we're not
essentially looking for we're drilling
um you know, where we are primarily
because of the combination of the forced
certainly
this is a big problem. We're going to do
then we've had in previous shortages,
the consequences of not getting helium
to shut down chip manufacturing and
which is used for drug discovery and
vital end uses and if people can't do as
all of these end uses.
major choke points
investment? Like what are you going to
the supply chain which comes from two
now got uh you know, production in
non-hydrocarbon sources in Western
also drilling for, you know,
long-term helium rights. So it takes 3
One of the biggest things that we've
overwrap uh tube trailers down to
helium liquefier rather
……（接近结尾）……
guess. No, that was a fascinating
episode. I mean, all of these niche
commodities are fascinating. Um I will
say one thing that keeps getting
repeated on all of these shows and you
touched on it already is this idea that
we haven't actually seen the physical
impact just yet and it's coming down the
line and you can imagine there are a lot
of consumers of specific products out
there who for now are able to say, you
know,
we're doing all right,
but maybe a month, maybe 3 months, maybe
4 months if things keep going as they
are. And even frankly, if the war were
to stop tomorrow, you would probably
have some sort of impact. Yeah, you
know,
you know what it reminds me of?
You know,
May 2025, it's like the shortages are
coming to the shelves cuz of the
tariffs. Yeah. And they didn't and then
it's like
I know.
think we're at like this weird moment
where it's like nothing ever happened,
but maybe it will. But yeah, but
everyone who we talked to in commodities
is essentially is like we're in the
phase where the water has come out and
the longer it takes for production to
restart and the strait to reopen, the
greater the damage is going to be. You
know what I think is like really
interesting
i- about this conversation in particular
and there are actually from a sort of
economic standpoint it's several very
interesting threads in there. So first
of all, there's the part about how like
if you're selling helium at the same
clip every year for 30 years, you
destroy any sort of semblance of a
market and therefore private production.
That's interesting. Another interesting
thing is that okay, like helium itself
is sort of scarce and not all over the
place. And then the scarcity of the
containers to he kept coming back to the
containers.
in the world because of helium can go
through glass, that means it's so small
not a lot can trap in. Even the
containers that exist um can only hold
it for so long. And then the fact that
um the helium that's needed for the most
advanced science as he mentioned at the
end, they want the six nines purity not
the five nines purity. And so they have
their own separate um set of containers
that like it's almost impossible to
imagine like at this point like a sort
of like truly coordinated like commodity
helium just because kind of like natural
gas, so much of the story seems to be in
the shipping and holding of it rather
than the commodity per se.
like helium is even more nat gas than
nat gas, right? In the sense that we
don't even have any pricing to look at
basically.
as someone who's been staring at a
Bloomberg terminal for many many years.
It feels really weird when you can't get
a price of something. So there is so
like typically speaking if you enter in
any ticker in the terminal, something
will come up.
And there is actually a something
There's a helium found. No, there's a
helium index. But whatever it was, it
was put together by the Bureau of Land
Management.
stopped whatever collect whatever this
index is in 2018. So there is not a lot
of there is not a lot of data on helium.
And I found that to be the case with a
lot of the new show. Yeah, discontinued.
It's for historical purposes only
according to the DES page. Well, the
other weird thing about it is it doesn't
actually look that volatile at all.
Right.
No, I So I don't even believe the chart.
wants to create some sort of pricing
index for helium, let us know. Yeah,
we'd love to check it out. Shall we
leave it there? Let's leave it there.
This has been another episode of the Odd
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe
Weisenthal. You can follow me at The
Stalwart. Follow our producers Carmen
Rodriguez at Carmen, Erman Dasho Bennett
at Dashbot, and Caleb Brooks at Caleb
Brooks. And for more Odd Lots content,
you can go to bloomberg.com/odd
lots and you can find our daily
newsletter. And you can chat about all
of these topics including helium 24/7 in
our Discord discord.gg/odd
lots. And if you enjoyed this
conversation, then please leave a
comment or like the video or better yet,
subscribe. Thanks for watching.