TITLE: How Far Will Trump Go in Iran? | Interesting Times with Ross Douthat
CHANNEL: Interesting Times with Ross Douthat
DURATION_S: 2932  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-27T14:00:00+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ln5ujSNp5CE
SHA256: 550b2fb3eb62a28e3d7510edfc37c3a928815abcb12ed3ebb80248a8f4d8f892

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [5%] &gt;&gt; the S&amp;P 500 down 5% since New Year's,
  [2029] January 2029, Trump's not going to be in
  [95%] You know, 95% of oil exports go through
  [50%] Kharg. It's 50% of the state budget.
  [40%] 40%. So, it's not worth it. I don't want
  [1979] 1979 and we've done very little about
  [80%] 80% of Iranians, about 70 million
  [2023] against Iranian school girls in 2023 to

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
If your professed goal is not a deal,
but killing their leadership and
replacing their regime,
why aren't they going to go apocalyptic?
Again, that's not
this with this
calculus.
there's a difference It may not sound
like there is, but there's a difference
between me and President Trump.
So,
is the United States winning its war
against Iran? We've won this This war
has been won. We're winning
decisively
and on our terms. And if this is what
success looks like,
their ticket prices,
what would failure look like? Iran, what
they have shown is that they are able to
kind of hold the global economy hostage.
they win. My guest this week is the CEO
of the Foundation for Defense of
Democracies. We got to go in and we got
to destroy this missile program and we
want to make sure that they can never
threaten the American homeland. He's a
long-time Iran hawk who argues that
victory and regime change are both
potentially within reach. Mark Dubowitz,
welcome to Interesting Times. Ross,
thanks for having me. Honored to be
here. So, we're talking, I'd say about
24 hours or a little more after
President Trump postponed his professed
plan to strike Iran's power plants if
they did not reopen the Strait of
Hormuz.
And we're also talking in the background
of conflicting reports about possible
talks between the United States and the
Iranian government or elements of the
Iranian government. All of that seems
very vague and nebulous at the moment.
But that's roughly where we are in the
timeline right now. So,
given where we are, first question, very
easy one, is the United States winning
its war against the Islamic Republic of
Iran?
Well, short answer is yes.
Longer answer is
depends on what you mean by winning.
And if you mean based on what President
Trump laid out as the objectives of the
United States,
then we are winning. And And those
objectives, he was very clear, it's
essentially to destroy the war-making
capabilities of the Islamic Republic,
which includes its missile program, its
navy, and its nuclear capabilities. And
I think with that in mind, it's only
been 3 weeks in,
think the US military, along with the
Israelis, have done a pretty
extraordinary job of severely degrading
those capabilities across all
lines of of power projection. I mean,
the missile program has been severely
degraded. Ross, give you a sense, I
mean, they had the largest missile
inventory in the Middle East before the
war started.
Um they were able to produce about 100
new ballistic missiles every month.
Their ballistic missile production rate
is now zero.
And their launchers have been reduced by
2/3. The Iranian navy has been
decimated.
The nuclear program, I think, is still
to be determined.
But between the 12-day war last year and
Israeli strikes against nuclear
facilities during the past 3 weeks, the
program has been set back even
more severely. But there's still the
Battle of Hormuz to be won or lost, and
I think that's going to be a decisive
battle that will determine whether
President Trump can
legitimately claim, at the end of all of
this, a major military success.
Yeah, well, we'll we'll talk about the
Battle of Hormuz. Um let's just stay
with military degradation for a moment.
In a scenario where
this conflict ended soon,
and those objectives were seen to have
been met. There's no world where
you're going to eliminate completely the
Iranian regime's capacity to have a
military unless you invade Iran and
occupy it and so on. So, does that mean
that
this military operation in its limited
form is just about buying time
so that we just don't have to attack
Iran again for 5 years or something like
that?
Yeah, I mean I think what we're trying
to do is severely degrade their
war-making capability um
and also their repression apparatus.
That's actually been the Israeli piece
of the military operation. But, I think
over the past 3 weeks we have now gotten
enough evidence from Trump himself and
from the White House that they're very
much setting these objectives as
missile, navy, nuclear. So, it depends
on the extent to which Iran can
reconstitute its navy, its missile
capabilities, and its nuclear
capabilities. It's difficult to know
exactly how far we set it back, and I
think one should always be careful about
those kinds of estimates. And we also
should remember that even if a US
president is not prepared to bomb again,
as long as the US president doesn't
block the Israelis from striking again,
if they just keep coming back and as
they call mowing the grass, you can keep
setting back those capabilities and
degrading them over and over again. So,
now let's talk about the regime cuz you
you already
gestured at this by mentioning Israeli
attempts to degrade the regime's
capacities. Um a week ago you co-wrote
an essay for the Atlantic entitled
Glimpsing Victory in Iran.
I think it's fair to say that you have a
broader definition of what victory looks
like than the military objectives laid
out by the Trump administration. So,
tell me what your vision of victory in
the war is.
Well, I think as we wrote in the piece,
you know, our vision of total victory is
the end of the regime in Iran. And I've,
you know, that's been my long-standing
position for now 20 years I've been
working on this issue
cuz I believe that to
permanently solve this problem
you have to replace the regime in Iran.
And I've been a a long-standing
supporter of
boots on the ground to do that, but
Iranian boots on the ground, not
American boots on the ground, which I
really believe that across
broad swaths of Iranian society that the
the level of enmity for this regime
amongst Iranians is deep and profound
and has gotten even more deep deeper and
more profound since January of this year
when the Iranian regime killed Iranians
on January 8th and 9th
um in the face of a huge protest
movement. So I I've long believed that
providing maximum pressure on the regime
maximum support for the Iranian people
and using a variety of uh overt and
covert means to fracture fracture the
regime's support base will ultimately
lead to the end of this regime. That's
total victory. Right.
in in in that essay and elsewhere you've
talked about what you've described as a
kind of three-phase
process
of getting there
from where we are now, where the first
phase is the kind of military campaign
that the US
has embarked on, degradation of the
Iranian military,
um
just talk through briefly
what you think each phase would look
like, again in an in a best-case
scenario that ends in regime change.
Yeah, so phase one is major military
operations that are ongoing right now.
Remember it's worth reme- reminding
ourselves we're 3 weeks in.
Uh you know, the Islamic Republic of
Iran has been at war with America for 47
years and we've been fighting back
against them for 3 weeks. So in the span
of 3 weeks I think that there's been
some extraordinary military
accomplishments, much more to do as we
talked about. Um I could see this
campaign lasting for another 3 weeks. I
think it would be a big mistake to pull
the plug right now. But I it also be a
mistake to continue this war for, you
know, for months. Right.
Yeah, phase two is very much what the
Israelis already embarking on right now,
which is severely degrading the
repression apparatus of the regime,
right? That they they began that on
February 28th with that initial strike
that took out the former supreme leader
Ali Khamenei and his top IRGC
commanders, generals, and advisers. And
……（中部抽样）……
they have been systematically,
the intelligence services, the people
military point of view continuing in
strikes against a wide range of
deal
Israeli
Israelis to continue to do what they
opposition so that the next time they
opposition, so it's not defenseless in
to take back their country as President
back to where we are now
However,
menacing the infrastructure that the
way down, but it hasn't dropped to zero.
turmoil.
think is lost in the current debate,
And that is that
its nuclear program severely degraded,
agreement.
So, imagine this regime with
regime threatening the Strait of Hormuz,
I I I I
where the US and Israel successfully
Iranian closure of the straits.
blows successfully, we chose to go
core economic and civilizational
Islamic Republic was going to close the
were intact and growing and becoming
when they've been severely degraded
in a in a way where we were stronger and
substantially degrade both their terror
to our bombing of Fordow, right? It only
in targeting regime leadership. And I
on. In a world where we didn't target
it's not clear to me that you can say
change. Isn't that fair?
strategy if he had done this, which is
wasn't obliterated despite what
rebuild my terror proxies, and I'm going
unless it's perhaps Marco Rubio, but on
home free.
sanctions relief, and Trump said make
rebuild all those capabilities that I
is going to support an Israeli strike
rocket, or one missile. I just have the
energy, and now I become a uh a a
Donald Trump was the only American
it is that we have chosen to fight an
We have chosen this because we saw the
we would But again, I I don't think, by
Hezbollah and continue to do periodic
permission, but that permission is not
have strategic bombers. They don't have
for
But it again, it just seems to me that
want to harp on this. Let's get back to
inevitable that we're going to fight the
really disturbing. He said something to
he likes he likes to talk like that.
would would terrify our Gulf Arab
depends on Middle Eastern oil and
um, I think should should be should be
the next president is not willing to
sharing the Strait of Hormuz with Iran.
confront them when they have nuclear
they're not going to reconstitute that
eight. I mean, I'm talking about the
essentially try and find a military
and depends on what it means by doesn't
safe for passage as long as the Iranian
case, then
public podcast, but I would just say
energy industry.
where you could do severe damage to
Well, again, it's week three, Ross. It
that that Trump may not do that, but I
economically. Everybody's talked about
Kharg. It's 50% of the state budget.
you like block Kharg, now that could be
literally could take away Iran's entire
financial warfare tools, which I'm not
missiles and rockets remain to it? Cuz
there have been sort of exchanges of
and a sense, at least
danger where Iran, where it's not just
in the Gulf for the next 6 months," or
regime down. I mean, he's made it very
apocalyptic situation, yes, the Iranians
have left at the Saudis, the Emiratis,
infrastructure. They'll have the will to
right? The fact that we would ever let
capabilities. But but but again, they
policy of
on the escalation ladder. Not that they
were just talking about, the sort of
plausible to them today because we, the
escalation calculus. Like as a just as
us and against Israel and against their
often with the Iranians that they back
cuz he always understood that the only
decision to back down when the United
think Qalibaf is the kind of man who
a choice. He has a fundamental choice
to adopt the Israeli strategy of regime
way up the escalation curve. By the way,
this war is over,
their Gulf Arab allies, and that is not
States as well
you know, again, I know you're not
a let's just say from a domestic
want to cut a deal. It isn't a deal here
risks that you outlined are risks I
risk of doing something. However, the
has wanted a deal since his first term
do, then I think we move to phase two
and continued fracturing of the support
not from the air by dropping bombs, but
a deal
class is being killed. Why would they
campaign of constant assassination and
goal is not a deal, but
struggle I just struggle with this with
and President Trump. No, I know No, I I
already committed to regime change.
going for full regime change." Okay,
Not just taking out its military
basically say, "We are not going to
sure the next president would, and that
and we arm them and we provide them with
we're going after 20 major cities and
United States of America has not made
if I'm an Iranian trying
not what he personally wants to do, but
by the administration's stated
change, sometimes have not.
confused by your articulation
then another moment you're saying, well,
Is there from your perspective
your vision fits together with what the
and shame on me, but you know, I I don't
slightly better job I hope of of doing
think that
All right, if we do severe damage to the
All right, what I I would like
would say
then then yes, that's a success cuz then
success to me. That would be a greater
severe damage to the repression
country, and we have Iran that is
significant success, and I would be
which maybe he, you know, he should
change. And even when he says, "Well,
over time providing support to Iranians
to achieving that. It has only been 3
they need, but there is talk about 3
severe damage to these capabilities. If
rightly declare victory. I think the
be able to defend as we had a 6-week
a severely weakened Islamic Republic
interests, and our allies. I think that
would consider to be a significant yet
yourself who
alignment right now. So,
and what its military partner is
coordinated. If they were not well
useful
leash.
negotiate with me and here my terms."
pretty reasonable terms. I mean, I don't
capability. You don't need enrichment.
me."
missiles, quote unquote. I don't know
presumably he's there's there's a
about sharing Hormuz with the Ayatollah
don't think that's a good deal. Israel
Is Israel a pitbull on a leash? Like is
Newsom sort of becomes even more
……（接近结尾）……
told them that. I think again, President
Trump has made that decision. I think he
believes that he can go to war with a
very capable partner, but I think you're
right. I think that will be the
narrative and I think it'll be very
difficult for Israel to defend against
such a narrative and I think the only
reason the Israelis decided to take that
risk is when they looked at the past
couple of years, when they looked at
October 7th, I think they decided that
leaving the Iranians with the kind of
war-making capabilities and the
possibility of developing nuclear
weapons was an existential threat to the
survival of the state of Israel and if
October 7th was not a wake-up call for
them, no one would nothing would be and
they had to within at least two to three
years while Trump was president do as
much damage to those
capabilities that the regime has to
destroy the state of Israel.
And then they would deal with the
knock-on effects of this
politically over the coming years. But
what you're saying then is that there is
this fundamental gap, I think, between
Israel's goals and the United States
because Israel in that in that
description, Israel's goal has to be
regime change at almost any cost and I
live in the United States of America. I
know what even very pro-Israel people
think in the United States of America
and that's just not that's that's not
going to be the American position. No, I
agree with you.
American position, nor should it.
It should not be the American position.
We have oceans, we're superpower, we've
got major commitments, we've got the
Chinese, the Russians, we've got capital
commitments. I mean, we've got massive
commitments that that cannot be at all
costs. I mean, I think it could be at
certain costs. I think we're week three
and American already Americans are
saying it's not worth it cuz we're at
week three and gasoline's gone up by
40%. So, it's not worth it. I don't want
to speak to that. It's a difficult
question for each individual American to
have to assess. But, I I I think
President American
I am furious that the Islamic Republic
of Iran has been killing, maiming,
torturing, kidnapping Americans since
1979 and we've done very little about
that, Ross. So, we can talk about the
little things we've done, but we've done
very little about that. And if it means
paying more gasoline and it means
putting up with an with an the
inflationary impact, and if it means
Republicans
losing the House or losing the Senate, I
mean, that's not for me up to from from
me to decide. That's for the president
to decide. That's his calculation
politically. And maybe he's made the
calculation that it is worth it. And
maybe he'll be proven right and maybe
he'll be proven wrong. But but you're
absolutely right. I mean, I think we
should be prepared to say pay some price
against an
an enemy that is an American enemy that
would have developed nuclear warhead
carrying intercontinental ballistic
missiles that threaten the American
homeland.
And with that
they would have had a stranglehold on
Hormuz not for 3 weeks, not for 6 weeks,
but effectively forever. And then we
would have been susceptible to this
regime, this nuclear armed regime that
had a stranglehold on the global
economy. I I think it was worth
preempting that and stopping that and
weakening the regime and not ever
getting into that end state. And by the
way, we spend little little time, but
not enough time talking about the fact
that there are
80% of Iranians, about 70 million
Iranians who despise this regime and
have been on the streets repeatedly for
year year after year and year after year
who've been brutalized, tortured,
killed, taken taken prisoner. Yeah. This
regime, I'll say one other thing cuz
it's worth remembering, this regime
launched chemical weapons attacks
against Iranian school girls in 2023 to
break the back of the woman life freedom
movement. So, you know, at some point
I'm not saying we we we go to war for
the Iranian people, but the Iranian
people are maybe prepared to go to war
against their own regime. Maybe the
least we can do is provide them with
material support to succeed. All right.
Let's leave it there. Mark Dubowitz,
thank you so much for joining me. Great
honor. Thanks, Ross.