TITLE: Investing in What Stays the Same | Connor Teskey
CHANNEL: The Knowledge Project Podcast
DURATION_S: 5067  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-17T10:01:33+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xSwHXjH8Og4
SHA256: 01cc0f860027f88c6a453400d96da8feea06778a451c1cf3132a1b948f5f3cec

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [100%] &gt;&gt; A 100%
  [2018] beginning of 2018,
  [90%] business. So, when something feels 90%
  [2016] 2016, I I moved to London. And
  [2019] transaction in the early part of 2019.
  [70%] 2/3, maybe even 70% of what we invest in
  [1900] were founded around 1900. And for the
  [50%] see up to 50% [music] higher
  [2000] know, there's the 2000 sort of dot com
  [2008] of 2008.
  [300000] safety for for for the 300,000 operating
  [30000] and and that's a that's a 30,000-ft
  [2030] guys made public was 2 trillion by 2030.
  [2050] to go to 2050, like hypothetically, what
  [1300] ideas. And what's great is we have 1,300
  [150%] spend 150% of my capacity. Now, let's be

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Why don't we start with the state of the
union for Brookfield? You guys manage
about a trillion dollars. Where is it
allocated
and how is it allocated?
around raising capital from the largest
pools of money around the world and then
turning around and deploying that
capital into the largest and most
attractive investment themes around the
world. As a result, we are a very global
business. We raise money all over the
world and then equally we deploy it into
60 of the biggest countries and and
markets. Undoubtedly, our our biggest
markets
continue to be the United States and
Western Europe, but we are truly a
global business today with operations
across Asia Pac, India, the Middle East
and South America as well.
that he wanted the next generation to be
better than him. And I'm curious what
what have you learned that's non-obvious
working with him?
think what Bruce has
built
is amazing and quite frankly
underappreciated.
In particular, not only the
the investment platform and the the
asset base, but but equally the the
culture.
That and I think it's that culture that
will ensure that we can keep growing and
keep building the way Bruce and other
members of senior management have built
up the firm for the last two plus
decades.
In terms of some of the things that
Bruce
has done and and not just Bruce, but
Bruce and other members of senior
management is they're incredibly
balanced.
When there are big moves in the market
that they're very measured
in terms of how they respond and how
they think through changing dynamics.
Secondly, I would say very
forward-looking.
We learn a lot from the past, but we
don't spend a lot of time dwelling on
it, if I can say it that way.
And [snorts] then
you know, that importance of culture,
the scale of what
has been built and often why I feel it's
so underappreciated,
it
is because
one of the big cultural aspects of
Brookfield is is almost worry about
putting others in a position to succeed
more more than yourself. And Bruce
certainly embodies that as do others and
therefore I don't think they always get
the credit for what they've built, but
we're very fortunate now to have this
exceptional platform that is on the
absolute front of some of the largest,
most enduring and most attractive
investment themes that have been running
for three or four or five years and are
going to continue to run for, you know,
one or two decades going forward.
from him?
been doing it for 20 years longer than I
have. Um in a lot of ways I think we
we've found each other to be very
complimentary.
The job is of course we run a very large
investment organization and therefore
the most important thing
we do is deploy capital at exceptional
returns. That is the bedrock, that is
the foundation of our business. That is
always what we're going to be known for,
but in order to do that at an increasing
scale and over a long duration of time,
you have to be better at so many other
things as well. You have to be very good
at building teams. You have to be very
good at communicating strategy,
communicating and interacting with your
clients, your LP partners, your
counterparties. It's that breadth beyond
just the investment role. And
been very fortunate to watch how Bruce
excels in in all of that and and
hopefully absorb some of it over over
the last, you know, 12-plus years of
working together.
changed? And I mean in the sense of
seems like we've gone from a traditional
sort of LP structure. There seems to be
a lot more co-invest now, and there's
different products available.
invest has changed.
There are some things that have changed,
but our one of the things we love about
our our business and our approach is
we've been very consistent over an
exceptionally long period of time. We
focus on high-quality assets that make
up the backbone of the global economy,
you know, critical assets or services
that really drive the growth and
productivity of the communities and and
and countries within which they exist.
Now, it's easy to say that we've been
very disciplined and focused on on that
approach and that theme, but there are
things that have obviously changed.
The assets and services that make up the
backbone of the global economy are
constantly evolving. We give the example
that, you know,
probably
2/3, maybe even 70% of what we invest in
today was not an investable asset class
15 or 20 years ago. 20 years ago, we
invested in hydro dams. Today, we invest
in solar and nuclear and batteries.
20 years ago, we invested in ports and
railroads. We, of course, still invest
in ports and railroads, but we also
invest in data centers and and fiber and
telecom towers.
So, while we've been very consistent and
focused on the backbone of the global
economy, that of course changes over
time.
The The other thing that changes is well
our
downside focused
approach to investing targeting that
backbone of the global economy has been
very consistent. A big part of our
business over the last really 10 years
has been taking that approach and either
packaging it different to meet the needs
of a different and growing and
increasingly diverse spectrum of of LP
partners and clients and also
distributing those products in different
ways.
Um I'll give the example that 10 years
ago I think we had four products. Today
we have 60.
And what has happened over those four
years is we've been very consistent in
the verticals we focus on. We focus on
infrastructure and real estate and
private equity.
But within each of those verticals, we
used to just have a flagship strategy.
Now we look to have a flagship strategy,
a mezzanine debt strategy, a super core
strategy, a strategy focused on the
retail wealth channel. And that's led to
using that same consistent and approach
and focus of investing but
distributing it packaging it across a
wider spectrum of products such that it
can be used to service a wider spectrum
of partner and and clients.
meteoric rise. You went from CIBC,
jumped into Brookfield, and you've
just been on this trajectory that is
hard to imagine. What do you think
contributed to that? Like what did you
have that other people didn't have? At
least part of the answer has to be good
fortune. Uh of course and
uh good fortune in that
um was fortunate to work on some
transactions and initiatives that were
very successful. Good fortune to
uh
in a few different places be right
place, right time. Th- Things more
tangible, however, I had incredible
mentorship, first and foremost. A- And
the obvious one that jumps out there is
Bruce, but it goes so much beyond that,
you know?
Right from the first boss I had at
Brookfield,
that gentleman was, you know, as much
boss as as mentor and friend to me and
really helped me develop. And well, it
was early in my career. I think a lot of
the things he taught me paid huge
dividends down the line.
you?
investment professionals
spend a lot of time focusing on is
trying to get that the model or the
analysis perfect. There's almost a false
degree of precision in in today's world
of Excel.
so many times you just have to overlay
good judgment. And you have to recognize
um
there are certain things outside of your
control that, you know, your Excel model
will seem like a certainty, but but
aren't. A- And then another thing
I I really attribute to to that first
mentor and boss I had at Brookfield is,
and I might get the exact words wrong,
but something along the lines of
"There's no absolute certainties in this
business. So, when something feels 90%
……（中部抽样）……
right, you do that transaction or you do
think were
concurrent with that move, I I switched
that way. You're you're not going to
prerogative, you think you're going to
you, and you get some momentum in that
answer is no, I didn't have some weird
I do whatever they ask me to.
people have mentioned to me is your just
hard, you have a bigger capacity to do
junior and senior
night, but
out?
You're you're I I had a bit of a unique
doing really well. You know, you're
tailspin. I I was crushed. I thought
not just the ability to do the work, but
work?
work very, very hard to structure our
construction cost, it's your revenue
our CAPEX contract, our off-take
price. It doesn't matter if inflation
uh on the back of long-term contracts
construction.
transcribes and turns them into clear,
so much more. I even use it when I'm
endless options, it delivered me a
same way you approach the rest of your
power supply,
long-term off-take, typically with a
centers that are being built are bigger
funding that whole
things that strikes me when I read these
there. One,
undoubtedly the greatest companies of
of course there's a pretty wide range of
That would be reason one. Or reason two,
a deal after initially reviewing it.
global in nature. And and what's been
local operating professionals. And
around the world? We've pursued a model
opportunities and position our
capital deployment decisions get brought
having local boots on the ground, but
opportunity, it might be the best
best opportunities globally and across
learn things in like one part of the
of clo- of course adhere very closely to
the world through the life cycle of the
appropriate men and women aware of
committee or something like that is
Uh Shane, the the other thing you
I I I'll give this example.
us would phone each other every two or
perspective, it's incredibly
think one of the unique things about our
is or what region they work in or or
someone within our infrastructure
outside looking at. Now, it's proved out
downside. We like to believe that if you
that. You know, when we initially
Westinghouse was a critical supplier.
right. You know, Westinghouse is a
the nuclear power generation sector
hoped would happen
you go in? What are the variables that
were founded around 1900. And for the
comfortable owning directly over the
bridge, if you will, doesn't come from
like to think we have best-in-class
we bring that expertise to bear.
improvement that we're seeking to do,
global standards around certain
we're proud to be the new owner of the
this capital out and then how much of
about 14 years ago.
consider buying a lower quality business
that that cash flow will be there 1 year
aren't in your control, yeah, you want
got a little bit over their skis,
focus on asset level non-recourse
asset level non-recourse financing. That
downside or equally something unforeseen
obviously people will focus on if you
across all of our platforms non-recourse
it and it's incredibly undervalued when
isn't going quite the way you expect,
Brookfield
of time focusing on is always ensuring
geographies, cycles.
the planet and with Shop Pay businesses
inside their inbox. The less they think,
all lowercase. Go to
But you haven't been deploying capital
organization is so valuable.
but here is why it is valuable and here
say young, energetic, I always use the
kind of experienced more senior
our our most important assets go up and
our business and it would be unrealistic
what we're doing in a way
lot of time focused on developing it and
about the NFL, right? And the NFL is a
incredible example because one of the
Then you've got wide receivers who don't
organization, raise capital, invest
people who are good at other functions.
thing cuz I think in finance, maybe I'll
casting about what to look for.
you add
perhaps different than
in different environments. And when it
incredibly valuable individuals to our
everyone.
same answer, but sometimes we we get it
they're they're nerdy in that they
positive return or an outsized positive
The the other one is this is always a
different uh aspects of the job but
rather than say it as a negative, I'll
positioned to to continuously develop.
You know, sometimes
accomplished. The Brookfield thing to do
within the business as much as the ones
are some people doing it and being
that is the largest and fastest growing
I I think it's a fascinating topic.
company.
whereby that information can be shared
impact is is amazing. And and there's
We're using AI to re-evaluate how some
across, I would say, almost a trillion
professionals we have in those 500
machinery is not supposed to be serviced
instantaneously
safety in the same way that you sort of
different assets in multiple places.
great forcing function that one they
initiatives.
and and that's a that's a 30,000-ft
parts of their job. And therefore, the
If you asked us
simulations in real time. Like
uh hype. In the short term, it always uh
around the world, which huge sums of
thing is is that overbuild is not
even at the end of that 20-year contract
uh while participating in this growth to
we try to be balanced every time, you
always the opportunity to do more. And
something that stuck out to me about the
business and investing in themes where
years.
its ability to produce
amazing thing about the platform we have
keep pivoting that trajectory above that
world's capital? What is the
is that point of we're very consistent
from now, 10 years from now. We
become big opportunities in 5 or 10
thing that I think is really going to
And that's going to continue. The The
new growth avenue for our business,
market today.
gives you those strong returns at a
example, a lot of growth in that is
retail access.
there's another one as well, which is in
a result, your S&amp;P 500 is increasingly a
therefore, what what we think
do if you're you're simply looking at
investment professionals to to filter
years ago and and this manager had run
"Well, if I can understand how
and and the greatest value creation.
time was was Oaktree. And I remember in
to plateau off when markets got really
looks very undervalued. And he gave me
there something strategic we could do
transaction in the early part of 2019.
……（接近结尾）……
that?
one thing I I do quite enjoy is
getting almost a daily update of um and
different services do it for different
asset classes. You know, these are the
15 relevant headlines in infrastructure.
And you read the headlines and maybe you
click on one of them to get more
information, but just reading the 15
headlines gives you a little bit of a
sense or a pulse of the direction of
travel. But if there's one that's more
relevant or more interesting, you do a
little bit of a deeper dive on that. Um
I certainly don't sit there and
you know, read publication XYZ cover to
cover every morning. Different people
have a different approach. I don't do
that.
fun for you to work on?
I
and I don't I think you're supposed to
love all your children equally. Uh I I
don't I think it would be very tough to
pick one. Some that stick out. One one
of the very first deals I was fortunate
to to be part of the deal team. We made
a very small cold storage business uh
investment in Canada early in my time in
in private equity. It was a small
business. It was a great business. It it
was underperforming when we bought it.
It turned out to be a fantastic
investment. This is not diminishing the
incredible work that was put in.
It was a somewhat simple business in
what the value drivers were, so it was a
nice one to to really learn on. It was
nice because it was a good one to learn
on and it was successful, so in
hindsight it it you know, I reflect very
positively on it. Some of our first
investments right after moving to Europe
when we were trying to build out that
that European power business. Um those I
remember being really fun because we
were
somewhat of a uh
a young almost scrappy team trying to
build something from scratch, but in
hindsight we we did a few very good
deals and that were quite foundational
to what we were fortunate to build over
the next six, eight, 10 years. And then,
you know, some of the big deals.
Westinghouse, uh Oaktree, um those have
been fun because of their scarcity,
their size, the the the broader impact
they've had on the organization, so um
it'd be tough to pick one.
happiness happiest when everything is
going perfectly. It's almost one of
those things where you you you want to
have enough on the go that you feel a
little bit stretched. Um
What one of the things I really like
about this job, and sorry if this is a
tangent, is I used to play a lot of
sports. And and one of the things I love
about uh this job is the competitiveness
of it. And and therefore,
I like that exercise of trying to figure
out the next thing or improving
something that is imperfect or
um it it if if target is X, try and do X
plus one. I'm not happiest when
everything is perfect and under control.
It feels good when we feel like we're
we're within our culture of of
discipline and methodical, but we feel
like we're we're trying to
continuously grow and continuously
improve and and we're we're we're really
pushing to do that.
best in a crisis.
And I'm curious as to why you think that
would be true. Why are some people
better in a crisis than others? And can
you predict who in your organization is
going to be good in a crisis or does a
crisis have to happen? And what would be
the indicators of that?
is an incredible positive attribute in
being able to digest information
somewhat unemotionally and make the best
decision at that point in time.
Earlier in the conversation, I mentioned
that the organization
is is very balanced, very measured, and
very forward-looking.
I always like when when things move and
generally when you're making this
reference, it's when markets move
negatively.
They're some of the most incredible
conversations we have as a business. And
one thing that that always shocked me is
we don't spend the first 30 minutes of a
60-minute conversation discussing the
negative impact on on what we have. We
spend all 60 minutes saying one, how can
we mitigate, protect,
ensure that the value of what we have is
preserved,
but then how can we look to capitalize
or capture on the opportunities that
that this crisis or or this
downturn [snorts]
may have created.
want to thank you for your time today.