TITLE: Risk and Return: Masters in Business with Matt Cherwin
CHANNEL: Masters in Business
DURATION_S: 3474  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-14T09:21:00+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mYeOxDvzylY
SHA256: 1d6e6074b15dd07d1611bafa60a4cdc4af684915afcef0de2a2fd9cc1cab10f3

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2019] universe. And then uh in late 2019, I
  [10%] cost you 10%.
  [0809] compared to 0809 where you know to me
  [2.2] Fed owns 2.2 trillion. So they're going
  [60%] buildings are 60% occupied in terms of
  [2020] &gt;&gt; Yeah. I would say like in early 2020,
  [0708] so to set the table a bit 0708 when I I
  [2025] of 2025 that we called the warfed and it
  [2026] 2026. I'm legally obligated to ask how
  [1%] trillion, it's not even 1%.
  [100%] &gt;&gt; but they're not they're 100% occupied
  [1823] Yellow Stones, everyone. 198, 1823,
  [1920] 1920, all of those. Lionist, uh, any of

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
This week on the podcast, another extra
special guest. Matt Cherin is co-founder
and chief investment officer at Maric
Capital. He previously spent 16 years at
JP Morgan Chase and then a bunch of
years at uh Cityroup beforehand running
all sorts of spread markets, head of
securitized product, lots of CIO and
risk management titles. Uh I came to
know through [music] um a live event we
did at Bloomberg last year. I found that
his approach to credit and trading is
absolutely fascinating and what MARA is
doing is really quite interesting. I
thought the conversation was brilliant
and I think you will also with no
further ado my conversation with Maric
Capitals Matt Sherwin
Matt Charin. Welcome to Bloomberg.
That was kind of that was that was a
bigger windup than I was uh I expecting.
opportunity to roll back to the
beginning and say, "All right,
bachelor's in economics from University
of Pennsylvania. What was the original
career plan?" I I don't imagine people
going to college and saying, "I want to
be the head of global spread markets."
because um our oldest uh is a sophomore
in college now
American and I was just talking to him
yesterday and he said I'm now in I think
they call it like finance for business.
I really like this new class. And I said
to him, that reminds me so well of when
I was in undergrad business school and I
did the first couple semesters of econ
and I hated it. [laughter]
have hated as much as I did, but at the
time uh it was ISLM curves, it was
supply, it was demand, etc. And it just
it felt it didn't feel very practical to
me and I didn't do very well in it. I
didn't go to class very often. I didn't
do very well. But then we got to kind of
the next semester which I think they
called finance 101 and was like
was like oh this I like. Okay, I am in
the right place.
you're not dealing with homoeconomy
because that is this theoretical version
of humans.
bit more at some of those others. Um,
but you know, something I say maybe we
we'll get to is like it just a
recommendation I would give to other
people. It took me a little while to
realize what I was interested in, what I
was interested in being interested in.
classes, kind of the more financy kind
of stuff, I was like, this I like this
makes sense. Uh, I want to learn more.
And I think that's kind of where it
starts. So I always wanted to get I just
like when there's, you know, numbers on
the page, it adds up to something.
You're trying to make money. It's
hopefully positive at the end. It might
be negative. It's pretty clear-cut.
like that. I always gravitated towards.
academic, but business and finance
practical, applicable, real life usage.
also I'm a little bit like a this a
little exaggerated, but I'm a little bit
of like a history buff. So, like it was
interesting that that what didn't didn't
appeal to me because I do like kind of
the history of it. how did we get here?
And I think that's always something that
I'm like in this form as well. Um going
back to learn more about financial
systems, how money works, how they
thought it used to work, different
schools of thoughts, and I think it
really helps you understand where you've
been, where you are, where you're going.
So when you look back when you were
group treasurer or chief investment
officer at at the JP Morgan um division
you were you were involved in what sort
of lessons did you take away from that?
You're you're in the real world managing
real risk, real portfolios. H how did
that experience change how you perceive
risk?
I'll tell you, [clears throat] so I
obviously I had a career with a
background in um, trading, running
trading teams both on the buy side and
the sell side. And it was really that
experience that this next piece that was
transformative for me and um, you know,
really brought us to the point where um,
my partner Derek Goodman and I decided,
let's form Merrick. And you know, I'm
sure we'll get into that a bit, but what
happened was I spent 20 odd years
trading mortgages, rates, corporate
credit, high yield products like that
working with specialty finance
companies. Some that I worked with, some
I had a hand in running this kind of
universe. And then uh in late 2019, I
had the opportunity to move over and
this was different building, different,
you know, walled off key card, different
team, and be the CIO and the treasurer.
So this is now by side running the
capital of the firm, the investment of
the firm, hedging and managing
structural risk, lots of things wrapped
up in there. But the real thing was the
point in time where this happened was
late 2019, a few days later was the repo
crisis. If we remember that
borrow overnight against treasuries, it
cost you 10%.
breaks out. And why I bring that up is
so much changed in dramatic size at
rapid speed that I saw something I'd
never seen before. And it was how does
the financial system really work and
what does it mean and how does it apply
to everything that I've done? And it was
one of these moments where I felt like I
just went from being the captain of the
ship, you know, my own little thing,
right? We'll be a little expansive with
it. I went from being the captain of the
ship to going to work in the engine room
and seeing the actual gearing and how it
works and how it doesn't and what could
stop it from working. And you spend
years, you know, you pull a lever, you
think the boat goes faster, but you
don't know why. And you don't know what
could stop it from doing that. And you
don't know what could make it work more
efficiently. But now you go work in the
engine room and you see it and you
understand it. It was just this aha
moment like we're two guys with glasses,
right? So, you know, when you go to the
the you get a new prescription, you get
your new glasses, you put them on,
you're like, "Oh my god, I can see."
Right? And by the way, how was I walking
around the streets of Manhattan with
that old prescription, but now I could
see clearly. And honestly, 20 odd years
into my career, that's how I felt at
that that moment
about six months in, it was kind of
like, oh my goodness, it's coming
together now. I wish I wish I had known
this for the 20 years that preceded
this, but I felt like now I know nothing
and I'm starting to learn. So I have to
ask. So uh my experience with 2019 was
that wobble seemed to go by so quickly
compared to 0809 where you know to me
you saw a lot of warning signs first in
housing and then in securitized product
and then in construction and then you
know the market didn't peak till
October07 and the next 18 months were
kind of fun if you were on the right
side of it but if you weren't I it must
have been a blood bath. It sounds like
you derived more out of the 2019
experience than you were on a desk in
089. What sort of scar tissue did that
leave? H how informative was that
you kind of put those together. And um
so to set the table a bit 0708 when I I
got to JP Morgan late ' 06 07 0809 I was
in charge of um had a team we traded
asset back securities say credit cards
auto student loans um subprime mortgages
remember those?
really kind of like the center of what
ended up happening uh after that. And I
would say it was
so overwhelming at the time. I mean we
were there 2 in the morning handmarking
bonds. Okay. Walking across the street
between the two buildings like is there
more information? This company might buy
that company before the market opens.
What else can we do? Um the numbers were
huge. It was almost like a bit more than
you could process at the time. Um, but I
think each one of these became every
step there was like I understand what
I'm doing better now because but the
first thing I ever did was I started out
as a cash flow structure
the guy who ran the department was uh a
friend of mine named Bruce Richards who
went on to start Marathon and um has had
a fantastic career and we keep in touch
……（中部抽样）……
and he said I said I want to be a trader
understand the risk better and then the
each other. So I would say in '08 I
underestimating and I remember some
does my product I'm trading fit into an
sitting in a meeting. We're in 7:30 a.m.
treasuries at 10%. should we do more?
have it because that sounds pretty
How did we get here? What's the where
picture.
together? Um, and how do we um how do we
door, three doors behind it, and I want
things I think a lot of people don't
their own derivative scare a couple of
they weren't dealing with the same sort
distressed assets. Well, I think I mean
I learned something that became
and I sat down one day and I said, "Let
MCCLR.
Are you destroying it? Credit is really
on paper we wrote a paper that we
gibbs if you come from some of this
like Apollo, Blackstone, KKR, Black
uh, Jump, Jane, some of these other
who loses, what are the flywheels here.
liquidity, and regulation drives
So, this to me actually explains how it
investors that have very narrow mandates
and there's a lot of gaps that they
right. We've seen things go wrong.
opportunity set that we want to
something you said earlier, which was
you don't have, you know, glass deagle
crisis, but allowed all these banks to
towards that is kind of fascinating.
there were rules.
credit through these fashions or some of
safe because I would argue we are and
see and understand and think about all
Bowman is the vice chair for supervision
which of them matter and which of them
we're going to remove this rule and it's
to a regulatory change that isn't
little more geopolitically volatile
going on. So we have we just kind of use
being in business
important to have a little bit of sense
chart.
what they want to accomplish. So here's
put in the book has to fit that
bit we think it's a very business
and there will he'll say all sorts of
layers of of regulation and away from
better when you change
they're underestimating the power of
constraints on deficits and ongoing
sell off until they have their hissy fit
discipline on deficit spending anymore
think we've seen some of those episodes
either going to have one of those days
MARIC and what influences our thought
mandate. We have a more flexible mandate
we'd like to have. Um, but the markets
um, does the administration react to the
of 2025 that we called the warfed and it
separately. So I think that's some of
say before we get back to your your
not forthcoming and then V went down.
when things were a little less
from Kevin Worsh if he ends up in the
picture and the trend and where we're
comfort of a big shop to have the uh
things that banks can't do. There are
equities related to that that around it
the operator lens, you understand it
a more elevated and efficient way.
we'll go this far, but no further.
prices.
it. Then you can look at something and
want to buy that? So like where are the
we have a unique perspective, a defined
understand and apply to these products
opportunity all the time. And we can use
of fascinated by the overall Merrick
kind of a hybrid? Like tell us about the
products as like I said it's tools in
ABS in credit in CLOS. Um I am on the
expression of the trade
differentiated insight into
doing this together like Derek and I
Sanskrit or some something, you know.
could work. All right, let's do that." I
mythology, it's either a fund or an LLC,
because and that really cemented it for
speak to you in a different way because
conversation
And it was just more way of learning
and it was an amazing time. I used to
I was getting to the point where I was
deck, we put a little timeline of my
And then we put like a little one-year
little punchy and we're like it made us
every part of the deck and also it's
doing all this you know my wife was like
reputation that we believe
tick all those boxes,
I'm an AI optimist. That's not one of my
desk in a week that would have taken a
This is like light speeded versus what
we're there yet, but we're going to get
boom
the leases? What are they paying? What's
market is not big enough for it, right?
and being wrapped up and put into a
more structure? Are you getting less?
and we're very opinionated about which
some of those firsttime issuers. We have
aligned with us with the instrument that
been around for a long time. Okay.
mortgage back. This is a there are it
post tweet. Um
expectation? Now in that instance we
thought this is going to be a support
and nobody knew like is it going to be
were positioned for that type of event.
Um, and you could see that that wasn't
talking earlier about the Trump tweet uh
market. I assume part of the motivation
like 200 billion, it's just not enough.
really want to move it and keep it
that sort of helped them in that moment.
So then you start to think about like
Um it's indicative here's the real
happen next? Um and sort of
down. Okay. So, some of it is what do we
somewhat different
trading on the short term.
credit. Um we there we're you know long
looking to achieve. Um we are we trade
we think? Are we positioned with the
you think about what does that mean?
cost of borrowing has gone down means
an even tighter credit spread on. And
So we that is one of we look at our
higher order one. But we look at what is
to do? Does it understand this? And then
that the lack of connections made
it's just as much a process in a machine
time. And the mandate is pretty clear.
every year. and you probably won't, but
different that had become. How does that
I believe managing risk at scale is a
places. VAR is a number and a starting
simple. Um, rates go up, rates go down,
conversation, okay? Because you do need
what could go wrong? um understanding
goals
different opportunities, what do you
places to extract from the flywheel is
office, right? So that all came to be
than we kind looking back on it that
growing and they were finding that two
more. And what they found was there's
real estate when applied correctly. And
the fundamentals. So what that really
buildings are 60% occupied in terms of
the JP Morgans, they want everybody back
there that we like. We actually, I would
which means you got to go see them and
……（接近结尾）……
underestimating the power of this
flywheel. Like with with the background
I've had and we've talked about and I've
seen a lot of things blow up like we
could come up with a lot of examples of
things that could go wrong. I think
they're underestimating
the things that could go right or what
the power of financing and um the
mechanics around financing and the
provision of liquidity and credit credit
spreads when they're good and when
they're tight and when the machine is
flowing what that financial engineering
can really do to both un recover value
and create value. I think they're
underestimating it really. The other
quick thing is
if Kevin Worsh ends up sitting in that
seat and if we get a little bit of the
the setup that he's looking for,
he's going to change everything, right?
So, he believes we're going to have a
big productivity dividend from AI and
we're going to have a big productivity
dividend from deregulation. And that
that would allow you to have lower rates
and a smaller Fed balance sheet at the
same time.
And if he gets a little bit of what he
needs to craft that argument,
we're going to have a very different
second half of 26 than the first half.
let's jump to our favorite questions,
our speed round. We'll get you guys out
of here at a reasonable time. Uh,
starting with who are your mentors who
helped shape your career?
people. Um, and I tried to learn from
everyone. I just had the the bosses that
I've had are, you know, legends in this
industry, whether it's Bruce Richards,
TM Pirlo, oh, Jimmy Demar, Matt Z,
Daniel Pinto. I mean, these are got
these are people who defined these
markets. Um, and they all had a huge
impact on my career.
books. What are you reading now? What
are some of your favorites?
Oh, you know, but like I am in front of
a computer screen and reading so much
and I read so much analytics, research,
etc. When I get home, it's a little bit
more like hang out with my wife and kids
and a little TV.
you listening to or streaming?
Amazon Prime, whatever.
Taylor Sheridan, you know, like
It's so good. like Land Man, all the
Yellow Stones, everyone. 198, 1823,
1920, all of those. Lionist, uh, any of
those. I'm a sucker.
new season of that coming out one of
these days.
watched both seasons like a hundred
times.
would you give to a college grad
interest in a career in investing,
credit, trading, what have you? I just
think it's not, you know, it doesn't
have to be a commitment for life. Just
look at it as what's something I'm
interested in being interested in. I
think you can pick the kind of people
you work with and you want to be around
good people who will teach you, who will
support what you're doing, and just say,
I'm going to give this a spin for three
to five years, and if I like it, I love
it, um, maybe I'll sign up for another
five. Um, but you know, you have an
opportunity to try something out and see
if it's for you. And our final question,
what do you know about the world of
trading credit, investing in alternative
sources of of liquidity and other
products that would have been helpful 25
or so years ago when you were just
getting your legs under you?
of what we are applying at MARIC any
point before we did this. If I knew a
drop of what we're doing when I sat in
other seats. Yeah, I'll put that all in
the I wish I knew bucket.
Matt, thank you for being so generous
with Matt Cherin. He's co-founder and
chief investment officer of Mar Capital.
If you enjoy this conversation, well, be
sure and check out any of the previous
600 or so we've done over the past 12
years. You can find those at iTunes,
Spotify, [music]
um, Bloomberg, YouTube, wherever you get
your favorite podcasts. I would be
remiss if I didn't thank the Crack team
that helps us put these [music]
conversations together each week. Alexis
Noriega is my video producer. Sean Russo
is [music] my researcher. Anna Luke is
my podcast producer. I'm Barry Roltz.
You've been listening to Masters in
Business on Bloomberg Radio.