TITLE: China’s Economy Surprises With Rebound | The China Show 3/16/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5579  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-16T06:12:49+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VMroB9C1Ef0
SHA256: 7b1ee6297403013d67d87e993f34bf2907dd1e25573ed6b608f7cd29d38c27e6

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] We're up 1% in London. We're looking at
  [3%] 3% but certainly you know we've already
  [2%] &gt;&gt; and this year we have a almost a 2%
  [2026] was shifting but uh going into 2026
  [5.3%] expecting a print of about what 5.3% uh
  [5000] Brent. Uh gold is below 5,000. Yeah,
  [4%] data. Last year was almost a 4% decline
  [50%] than 50%. That Trump is going to arrive
  [5%] uh 1 and a.5%. Uh we are seeing when it
  [20%] sector used to be like 20% of EM back in
  [2020] cycle from 2020 to 2024. And then we've
  [15%] Court's decision invalidates the 15%
  [4.7%] uh 1 4.7% to the upside and it's looking
  [35%] 35% probability that the straight of
  [2007] 2007 when when I started. Uh now it's
  [2024] cycle from 2020 to 2024. And then we've
  [10%] reciprocal tariff while maintaining 10%.
  [2.8%] looking at retail sales 2.8%
  [6.3%] 6.3%.
  [6.3] at 6.3, fixed asset investment actually
  [1.8%] about 1.8% print.
  [11.1%] 11.1%
  [5.1%] higher to 5.3% from 5.1%.
  [0.9%] less negative to negative 0.9%.
  [0.6%] assume a 0.6% CPI for this year.
  [0%] &gt;&gt; Uh better than last year 0% but still
  [2017] that um, since about 2017, there's been
  [70%] from overseas markets about 70% of its
  [1.2%] mixed bag there 1.2% 2%. We're still
  [1600] they have received over 1,600 drones
  [92%] high there above 90 92%. Uh, but the
  [90%] 90% of Iranian oil does get directed to
  [13%] China. about 13% of China's overall oil
  [50000] 50,000 of um but can still cause a
  [22%] essentially a 22% increase in quarterly
  [2.6] overall o of NT $2.6 trillion. That's
  [82.6] 82.6 billion in the quarter ending
  [2025] 2025, they've managed to double their
  [100%] sales growing over 100%. So that's a

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
9 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and here
in Hong Kong, you're watching the China
Show. I'm Ivon Man with David and Glass.
markets in greater China this Monday.
Let's get to your top stories today.
Stocks across the Asia-Pacific are
edging up. A lot of that is to do with
the rally in Korea. Uh oil trimming its
gains here. The dollar falling as
markets try to stabilize after US
strikes on a key Iranian export hub.
President Trump demanding help from
other countries, including China, to
secure the street of Hormuz as the world
grapples with energy supply disruptions.
planned summit with Chinese President Xi
Jinping if Beijing does not help unblock
the street.
shock by using extra tax revenue to help
households and businesses. Our exclusive
interview with the finance minister
coming up.
Yep. We are entering a third week of
this Iran conflict and it doesn't seem
like there is any end in sight here
right now. Um, we were I thought we were
going to kick off the show talking about
this US attack on this Iranian export
hub and that was probably going to royal
markets. But I think the last few hours
there has been somewhat of a chorus of
what President Trump has wanted urging
NATO, urging the likes of China to help
in terms of the reopening of the
straight up horm. But there is also
implications for China, right? We're not
sure right now whether this this trade
talks uh with President Xi are going to
happen or not.
meeting of course top officials in
Paris, right? And by most indications at
that point we were those two stories
were still largely divorced from each
other. But now of course we now know
that those two things are not separate
and that one could affect the other. Um
so markets are trying to figure out so
we're stable right now as far as markets
go. Uh we're trying to figure out though
whether the premium built in last week
was enough that there is somewhat
visibility on worst case on oil and not
so much worst case as pertains to the
war because there is no offramp still
visible there. Um but when you look at
the oil price right now, it does seem
that uh much is in the price. You know,
we opened one above 104. We're at 102
right now here.
reversing a little bit here of some of
the concerns around supply disruptions
and the like. There was this fear that
things will be more widespread in terms
of the the you know damage to
infrastructure and the like. So I think
for markets I mean hopefully it's a time
for us to look beyond that in some ways.
We still have some big big central bank
decisions this week to talk about as
well.
at the Iran story, the central banks,
right? And then that that's really going
to come to fruition. We have some data
coming through as well out of China
today that really goes into the economic
story we're talking about here. We
talked about oil. We opened above 104.
We're below 103 at the moment within the
commodities complex. It's now aluminum
that's in focus to given the sort of
second degree implications as it
pertains to that specific part of the
energy market of the commodities market.
We're up 1% in London. We're looking at
a contract as well uh when things come
fully online in Shanghai. Right. The FX
and rate story is one where on Friday
the dollar hit the highest level of the
year. We're giving up giving back some
of that strength. Uh yes, we are close
to 160. That's the level we're talking
about here as a pertaining to the dollar
yen. Uh Euro dollar in focus. So we have
a flurry of central bank decisions this
week. Uh equity markets, you have the
nickep Taiwan coming online. US futures
on your screens and a lot of that of
course has to do with the Cosby and the
rally there. Taiwan is also opening up
1% and just a glance at futures going
into the open today. A50 futures and you
have Shanghai oil and Shanghai aluminum
uh 1 4.7% to the upside and it's looking
like we are set for gains here in
greater China at least for today.
as we mentioned, it is about the state
of these USChina trade talks as well
with the FT saying, "Look, President
Trump says he could delay it if China
does not help out when it comes to
reopening the straightup war moves."
That activity data, we got a big data
dump coming through at the top of the
hour as well. Home prices come through
the bottom of this hour, so look out for
that first in terms of what we could get
in terms of data. Uh we're watching
everything from aluminum, right? And
really zinc. So, you know, we we talked
when we went beyond the whole oil
discussion, gas, last week was about
helium. This week might be more about
zinc. Uh just given some of the supply
disruptions that even China is facing
when it comes to getting access to some
of these zinc concentrates from the
Middle East as well. Uh the 200 day
moving average and the HSI certainly is
one thing to watch there. And of course,
we got some earnings coming through here
today.
farm up play of course oil fields uh
which is of course one of the units
there the bigger one uh listed onure
lots to watch there today um but yeah
let's get the latest here President
Trump when talk about latest in the last
few hours or so President Trump here is
demanding that other countries
contribute to the defense of the
straight of hormuz which remains
effectively shut to oil tankers we heard
from him earlier saying that China
should play a more active role in the
region
they should come in. In my opinion, it
never made sense for years. If you go
back and look at what I've said years
ago, I said, "Why are we maintaining the
hormonal restraint when it's really
there for China and many other
countries?"
could delay his much anticipated summit
with Chinese President Xi Jinping if
Beijing doesn't help unblock the strait.
Let's bring in our team now. our
Bloomberg managing editor Jill Dus and
our China correspondent Mimllo uh with
the latest. Jill, I'll start with you.
Um you know, of course, we were supposed
to talk about this big Iraq uh you know,
attack on Car Island. But now it seems
like you're getting more of this urgency
from President Trump to get other
nations involved in reopening the
straight of Hormuz. How high of a hurdle
would that be?
difficult to tell just but you can you
can see just from um you know, some of
these comments from Trump that um you
know, he's he's using the words
demanding. He's demanding that countries
kind of get involved with um sort of
protecting the straight of Hermuz and
then obviously um some of those broader
conversations about coalition building.
I mean this is a really really tough
task that Trump has in front of him and
I think you know what you're seeing here
is that all signs kind of point to him
being the one that ultimately has the
power to kind of end this war. Um but
it's it's kind of unclear what exactly
he really wants from this, right? I mean
you've have some shifting uh you know
conflicting messaging from the Trump
administration about what exactly it is
that um you know they're they're
ultimately looking to achieve here. Um
certainly um you know the end of any
kind of nuclear weapons program in Iran
is a key consideration here. But uh he
also said in those comments on um Air
Force One, there were some other things
that they were looking at, but he didn't
exactly make clear what it was he was
talking about. Um you know, there's some
ideas floating around about the
possibility for regime change, but of
course we saw what happened with the um
old Supreme uh leader being replaced by
his son, who if anything is um you know,
more aggressive on some of these
tactics. So, um, if you're some of these
other nations that's listening to these
Trump comments on, um, protecting the
the straight of Hermuz and securing
passage for those ships for some kind of
……（中部抽样）……
a coalition building, um, you might want
been a lot of speculation when the Iran
view this move by President Trump
is a long time and maybe there could be
Trump's tariff regime, uh, was
talk about what they want to. So, I do
pretty significant question here.
buying more agricultural products beyond
LNG globally. Um there's also the Boeing
been very keen to put money in the US
Morgan's Asia equity and quant
events in the Middle East more with Mixo
You put together everything and that's a
being able to pass through a lot of
east, 24-hour rolling data every 30
this is the worst that they've seen in
I'm just wondering what is your team
ensure safe passage. But how that can
signals uh to protect themselves or they
fact anecdotal you know some of our
in the UAE but it's outside of straight
saw um over the weekend that really took
there are also reports that China or
safely go through. But safe to say that
really the important context as far as
prices triggered by what's taking place
instead of others more potentially
If you actually need to help the
today. 8 minutes to the opening bell. A
print which is already a little bit of a
back to the downside here. Uh it's worth
It just tells you about the I guess
these things we talked about the talks
you know Chinese uh you refiners and
settled near the the $100 mark here.
Welcome back. Uh you're watching the
we talked about these are the January
this meeting uh in with China here if in
have seen Brent and WTI come off a
watch. So you know when it comes to
lot of focus on tech and we have got
comes to Xiaomi that could be the big
oil stocks here as well. just given the
the likes of Chalco Hongcha are slightly
declines, still declines, new home
ahead, Ivon.
injuries have been reported so far. Uh
Brent. Uh gold is below 5,000. Yeah,
quant strategist at JP Morgan. Good
positionings being degrossed a little
become a big story uh you know if you
semiconductors to semi which is staples
been good buying opportunities entry
starts to become a bigger economic
these geopolitical events themselves
has let's call it 2 and 1/2 weeks 3
Secondly, uh via central banks and how
trade now around this?
their secure supply chain um and there
financial perspective if bonds are no
what's the specific play there though?
initial benefits will be in the upstream
year. You still think that's that's
of their very heavily concentrated
environment, the wall doesn't happen. It
information about future policy
be listening out more for. Secondly, uh
down cycle, right? Fundamental down
pointing in a direction that's
started to see retail investors buying
know when it came to the data yes the
we're watching the airlines very
International Airport. This is
government's top priority right now is
price. However, if the future imports
intends to compensate for those losses.
transporters, delivery service
The one's recent weakness is not due to
this year the current account surplus is
market? And is that a risk?
US trade representative 301 section uh
will likely be determined through
trade?
of things. Right. So there's update
two things. It's the data dump and
here today. CSI 300 is lower by about
Dubai uh international airport
you seeing here? So it seems like it's a
pair that with the the home price data
suggesting the there was a lot more
your take on them?
disruption factors as well.
pressure. We are looking at some smaller
last year.
number two here some projects are being
disruption from the base effect and
is there has there been an effect really
clearly in this year the initial boost
uh for China as a whole on average maybe
weeks Yeah, I was about to ask you, do
next? So that's a more important
elevated oil prices but after that maybe
consumption and also China has a very
can see PPI may turn positive year in
assume a 0.6% CPI for this year.
expectations for PBC cut interest rate.
it whether it happens or not. But what
sent a message that uh the uh US needs
little bit decelerating at least for now
things across these markets. 11 minutes
no doubt this is a market we're focusing
out not uh we're below 5,000 there. And
for gold once again for subscribers you
exporting hub of course in Iran which
you're Chinese or Russian linked, you
have maybe turned off some of their
again, suffice to say the headline here
depot on Carg Island. This would be a
momentum from this conflict in the
David, let me start with you. Underscore
uh, a lot of push for uh, people in
these rural families. Um the uh they
their houses who are uh you know people
bridge uh to electrification. Um I I
and when it comes to capacity and the
wind, solar, hydropower, all of which
these companies like State Grid and
banks or the debt markets. There's a lot
underlying market that uh that dictates
any of the energy security promises
um at the two sessions last year was
you're seeing a lot of like EVs and
our opinion columnist David Fickling
Right. An update of the energy complex
international airport there due to a
Bloomberg.
GGB yields are just one basis point
massive central bank week we'll have in
getting though Indonesia which is also
not necessarily a bad thing too because
a lot of commentary uh that's happening
thing to watch, right? When you talk
In fact, the very first I would say to
further do we have to start thinking
is hours after a drone strike targeted
international airport. They go on to add
that this is the first attack on the
that yesterday the UAE announced that
the Dubai International Airport. And of
now. The uh Dubai media office saying
clearly, they're considering a number of
countries that are benefiting from the
in ensuring the safety of the strait.
coalition but also his typical
future where they can cut these side
interviews. He did give an interview to
nuclear weapon. Now, on the other side,
never happen again. They do not want to
again. It's a it's a form of deterrence.
disruption as we saw for example this
with the Chinese briefing that's taking
swings and of course supply that is
half to 5%, but yes, they seem to have
touching on many many aspects here as
to those reports coming through. Lots
certainly it's a busy busy week on tap.
……（接近结尾）……
period. Paboa also underscored his
commitment to fiscal discipline and says
Indonesia must live within its means.
Australia says one more member of the
Iranian women's soccer team granted
asylum by Cambra has decided to return
to Iran. It means five out of the
original seven who have been given
refuge will now return. Now, last week,
Australia granted asylum to six players
and a support worker after concerns of
persecution when Iranian state media
described the team as traitors.
Korea dealing with this energy crisis?
uh what well they plan to do is they'll
be using extra tax revenue to then fund
all the support measures coming through
in a bid really to just cushion the blow
to consumers and businesses from
obviously rising energy prices globally
triggered by uh the the war in the
Middle East. Um its finance minister in
fact on Friday spoke with us
exclusively. Have a look.
global.
overshadowing the global economy. The
government's top priority right now is
responding to the Middle East situation
in the short term while reducing Korea's
structural dependence on oil over the
medium to long term,
price cap. Why this specific measure
instead of others more potentially
broadly or more targeted measures to
support the economy?
Currently, the imported oil is from
before the Middle East conflict. During
this twoe period, when imports have been
halted, it will come in at a higher
price. However, if the future imports
become even more expensive, the
government plans to raise the price
proposal accordingly to compensate. The
government plans to decide at that time
whether to reduce taxes again.
If you actually need to help the
refiners, does that mean that the
government will be using its own budget
in order to do that? And how are you
planning to pay for that cost?
during this process, the government
intends to compensate for those losses.
Kuyon Cho there speaking exclusively to
Sherry. We'll have more from that
conversation later on, of course, in the
next hour.
today, just look at brand prices, crude
prices, generally speaking, and of
course there's the uh aluminum element
as well to track here. Uh gains across
most. Gold of course is going the
opposite way still was below 5,000. You
are still getting pressure across the
gold complex in the equity markets
today. Uh Chinese consumer stocks are
actually doing quite holding up quite
resiliently. um everything from Maai of
course which is the massive name
consumer staple name uh on the CSI300
you know and on shore uh retail sales to
pricing to the upside the overlay as
well from the property side of things is
a property market which is not which is
falling by the slowest pace going back
to June so just that mental gymnastics
things are basically better than
expected as it pertains to the property
market and most metrics that have come
through in the last hour
sort of initial reaction to all this
right now. So, um they said really it's
a good set of numbers, but it was kind
of a low bar that the data did clear at
this moment. They still think the
economy is stuck in a sort of slow
growth uh in a stark reality that you
know we're still trapped in this slow
growth equilibrium according to their
their assessment of it right now. So, um
but right now the market is taking it in
stride and saying look this is at least
some good news uh in the face of all
this volatility and bad news that we're
seeing around the world right now.
the rates market also suggesting that
steepen nearing the curve. UBS joined us
and they did also observe this uh so
somewhat slight repricing of inflation
expectations in China. Uh going into the
last hour of the morning session here in
Hong Kong we are let's call it flat
after opening lower session highs and
then let's call it even here. Splitting
the difference between the two. MCI Asia
Pacific going into couple of market
opens. You have Thailand and you have
India. Bottom of your screens are
futures. We're down 6/10 of 1% weakness
coming through the equity complex this
Monday. Lots more ahead though. This is
the China show.