TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/26/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8626  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-26T15:23:08+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xSEP1fdOK-M
SHA256: f7995d1b4881efaaed05373b0b434127c1f5eb825d8e4e5d924cfc9cb649b1d0

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] those headlines. We're down by 3/4 of 1%
  [4%] close to 4%. I mean, that's that's
  [5%] 5% early this week following a surge in
  [2022] going back to 2022. How come there is
  [3%] by 3%. 93 on WTI. Brent crude this
  [2026] for 2026 is uh very different because of
  [0.8] NASDAQ down by 0.8 down 1% on the
  [0.8%] negative here by about 0.8%. Coming up
  [0.6%] We're negative by 0.6% on the S&amp;P. On
  [8%] This isn't exactly an 8% draw down or
  [2%] 1.2% 2% looking across the G20 economies
  [100%] since the pandemic. 100%
  [210000] 210,000 for the week ending last week on
  [2027] 2027. Sarah joins us now for more.
  [3.4] &gt;&gt; I mean, the 2-year going from 3.4 to
  [0.7%] 0.7%. George, it's good to see you as
  [0.7] the NASDAQ, we're down by 0.7. In the
  [10550] &gt;&gt; Brent crude up by 3% 10550 on Brent this
  [1.3%] actually higher by 1.3%.
  [2024] to 2024 and dealers took down the most
  [3.9%] like Heckla Mining down 3.9% in the
  [3.4%] 3.4%. 24% micron also in the red after
  [24%] 3.4%. 24% micron also in the red after
  [50%] making a big move. Ollex soaring 50% in
  [1.4] $1.4 billion. John
  [0.68%] talking about in February was 0.68%.
  [15%] even a 15% draw down or even a 3% draw
  [10%] about 10% of global oil supply, 20% of
  [20%] about 10% of global oil supply, 20% of
  [30%] gasoline prices rising over 30% since
  [10640] Brent crude at 10640. WTI at 93. That's
  [000%] something like a,000% over the past
  [2.4%] shares are down 2.4% this morning. John
  [2020] actually was a credit cycle. 2020
  [2021] we saw in 2021 2022 especially because
  [1.2%] 1.2% 2% looking across the G20 economies
  [1.3] on the Russell by 1.3. Off the back of a
  [6%] jumping to a record last year, rising 6%
  [246900] to $246,900
  [0.9] by 0.9 on the NASDAQ, down by more than

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
There's so much noise in the world. It's
very difficult to be definitive around
this.
consequences are if this conflict
continues to go on.
that this will not metastasize into
something which is larger.
safe haven in this environment. The bar
for bad news is obviously exceptionally
high. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, stuck in talks about
talks.
threat on Saturday evening, it was made
clear to the United States that Iran
wanted to talk. President Trump is
willing to listen. President Trump does
not bluff and he is prepared to unleash
hell. Any violence beyond this point
will be because the Iranian regime
refused to understand they have already
been defeated and refused to come to a
deal. The White House insisting the
diplomatic effort is continuing as Iran
is drafting plans to introduce a toll to
transit hormurs investors accord in a
headline-driven market whipssaw. Oil
advancing once again this morning.
believe one headline? Do you believe
another headline? How do you prepare
yourself for the next headline that
could come down the pike? Every day this
goes on though, the upside gets smaller.
Every day this goes on, inflation
expectations are going to creep higher
and the growth expectations are going to
dip lower. And so ultimately at a
certain point, you wonder how much
people's impulse to buy the dip starts
to become limited.
just moments ago. Check out the story.
The Pentagon developing military options
for a final blow in Iran that could
include the use of ground forces and a
massive bombing campaign according to
two US officials and two sources with
knowledge.
don't know about the fog of war. There
was also reporting overnight about how
the bulk of Iran's uh bombing sites and
missile launchers have been damaged.
There are questions about what the US
and Israel attacks have actually
accomplished in Iran, what their
capabilities are. It just doesn't take
much to disrupt shipping. And this is
the difficulty. It takes one ship, one
dinghy, one drone, and that is the
problem that people are facing as well,
rock and a hard place. Which way do you
turn? We've talked about facing down
substantial two-way two-way risk. Black
Rockck, not pricing in the risk. That's
the Black Rockck view. CIBC Chris Harvey
Trump the Trump put is struck. It's time
to put money to work.
saying the same thing. You've got JP
Morgan saying also by the dip. You have
uh Veno Krishna over at Morgan Stanley
coming out and actually upgrading his
forecast. Right now by the dip has been
a successful trade pretty consistently
throughout the board especially when
there is geopolitics. This time when you
speak to energy strategists who we've
been talking about this for a couple of
weeks now they're sounding a very
different note that is much more similar
to what we're hearing from Black Rockck
than say some of the more bullish
streets uh streets out there.
negative here by about 0.8%. Coming up
this hour, George Canas of MUFG with
markets very much on edge. Marine Corps
veteran General Robert Walsh's strikes
continue in the Middle East and Michelle
of Mastercard with the consumer very
much under pressure. We begin this out
with our top story. The US and Iran at
odds over peace talks as attacks press
on Jamaa Basi joins us now from Dubai
for more. Jamanna, welcome to the
program. Just what is the status of
talks? Where are we?
talks are actually happening, John. And
if you go by what the Iranians put out
yesterday, they don't seem to be in the
mood of compromising at all. They set
out their own five counter demands of
what they would look be looking to to
enter into discussions to end the war.
Uh and some of those terms are really
far away from the starting point of the
US discussions uh that they had even
prior to this war. Uh but they include
things like assurances from the US that
they'll never attack Iran again. Uh war
reparations that they're looking to
they're seeking to get from the United
States as well. Uh and then the other
one which is a new point that has
obviously emerged over the course of
this almost monthlong war is they are
saying that they have a right to
sovereignty over the strait of hormos
which is obviously an unacceptable
outcome for not just Gulf uh allies in
the region but more broadly for anyone
involved in the in the energy market. So
the terms are unrealistic and a
non-starter as far as the US is
concerned and it seems very unlikely
that these direct negotiations or even
indirect negotiations are actually going
to yield anything. At the same time the
clock is ticking. Uh remember at the
beginning of the week Trump pushed back
that 5-day ultimatum. We're getting
closer to that. So that coincides with
around Friday evening over here in the
Middle East. Uh and at the same time we
have been reporting about extra uh
military assets and the marine uh
expeditionary units that are arriving to
the region. There are two units on their
way. The first badge is expected to
arrive in coming days. uh which means
the Trump administration policy at this
point is almost to simultaneously look
to deescalate while at the same time
looking to potentially escalate over the
coming days given Iran are not showing
any inclination to return back to the
negotiating tables. I think there's a
real fear this weekend that we could
once again find ourselves in a situation
where military operations have once
again intensified. And just as a
reminder, it is day 27 of this war.
These strikes, the military operations
are ongoing. Um, if anything, IDF have
intensified some of their attacks over
central Tahan and other parts of Iran
overnight. Iran has continued to
retaliate against Gulf States. Some
sirens went off in Bahrain. Uh, some
more uh drones intercepted in Saudi
Arabia and even at the first deaths
reported in the UAE in over a week now
because of intercepted missiles. So this
is still we're still very much in the
midst of the war and a lot of
nervousness heading into this weekend
and the real possibility that this could
once more escalate and in return Iran
have also threatened to strike back
against civilian infrastructure at Gulf
States.
as always. Bloomberg's Jamala Beti out
of Dubai leading our coverage so far
this morning. There's a lot hanging on
talks over the next 48 hours
deescalation looks like. I mean if you
deescalate, does that mean a ceasefire?
Does that mean a reopening of the
straight of Ramuz at a time where Iran
is saying that essentially they have
ultimate control over this key
passageway?
morning. Jos Garvis of MUFG writing the
impact from the war will likely turn out
to be even more damaging than the tariff
shock, especially considering that the
US jobs market and consumers are already
on shaky ground. George joins us now for
more. George, good morning.
auction soft two-year soft fiveyear
seven-year auction coming up a little
bit later. What do you think is behind
the weakness and demand for US
government debt right now?
happened globally on the rate side. the
US Treasury market really lagged
everything else and this you know this s
sort of concern around like what is the
new steady state for interest rates and
you know heading into you know end of
the month end of the quarter type
environment these auctions usually do
well and the fact that they're you know
under pressure does kind of show that
there's been a some sort of kind of
buyer pullback
this week about golf flows and the
……（中部抽样）……
importance of the Gulf as a source of
5-year point in the curve. So the 10
of real concern that we're seeing that
feature of this week not just around
potential probabilities. How do you have
think what Jeff Curry of Carlo said on
mistaken you've got nations across the
week sevens a little bit later on this
disputes on immigration policy. That's
morning. Good morning.
talks.
really a a factf finding mission in
that. Marco Rubio tends to bring sort of
never forget this very po important
really getting mixed signals. It's
Securities. He's been a friend of the
that, you know, the US and Israelis have
be able to go in there and have all the
fast attack boats that they've used in
able to operate from those locations.
the capability now would be to try to
kind of sets what they were comfortable
discussing is basically making this
Wednesday coming into Thursday we're
it concerns about the fiscal response to
barrels out and the increase in crude
I thought the piece from Muhammad Alan
chops. Uh memory chip stocks, they are
our radar this morning. Iran rejecting
even a 15% draw down or even a 3% draw
to get half, I'm likely to ask for
point to this area as evidence of a weak
a peace deal um then we could have a
and actually the flows has been going up
be a premium an additional premium in
what we're dealing with right now. So
through most part of the conflict so
are very nimble and very dynamic to look
that have been pretty messy over the
end and the belly uh of the US Treasury
better get serious soon before it's too
saying the US is negotiating in Tyrron
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
Futures negative by 3/4ers of 1% on the
You wake up every single morning. You
energy dominance. We're going to see
that's a necessity which means that more
was skyhigh.
table, but that the momentum will
dynamic nature of the economy that has
up in some of the demand on the consumer
probably a bit harder to see that play
the shock. That's why traditionally you
do. They can hike or cut all they want.
setting the stage for talks going into
messaging that runs in all directions.
and said we're not going to trade this.
was soft. There's a 7-year auction
the willingness. This hasn't come from
Matias Corman on a stagflationary shock
Uh that whole 5 days gave us a bit of a
Because we have repriced asset classes a
there is a lot to be done so I do have
rate hikes. What do you think is behind
be even more justified because we're
these things can turn uh but even
for bonds perversely on the back end.
going to hike and this is why yields
pricing looks like. That is the pain
And Fed Governor Steven Myron raising
invest. Which bouncy board we follow?
whipsawing markets as you and Amber were
have been defeated militarily and will
be pretty. He says before it is too late
headed below 40 points and that's not a
while the president and the DoD get
mentioned gas prices. Also, the fact
Trump and I don't think that's really a
the year when they have to do
in the region is waning. I think all the
potentially seize an island or make sure
exposing a lot of American troops to
that's one of the only release valves
that stood out for me is the one we've
with the OECD Secretary General Matias
soon before it's too late because once
deadline, the self-imposed deadline
investors lean into the stockpiling
barely makes a difference. But these
to be tied to those credit blowups
Blankfine warning of a fire risk in
asking. Is this the initial tremors of
you're at home tracking this, you're in
fears. We'll move on. The OECD
the energy price shock. So you know the
sheets for consumers aren't as
of the impact of the energy price shock
we we do think that there is a
of course true. I mean our current
inflation has been above the targets for
it could get. And I mean there's there's
difficult argument to make. That's what
desperate to make a deal. Iran publicly
rates. Now, we have an energy shock and
move in crude, this is what the bond
damaged, that changes things.
former Dallas Fed president joins us now
know, rate cuts into either no action or
potential for rate cuts in part because
that are very attractive. You know,
weeks not in many months and uh I think
there was a lot of activity looking at
recommending to clients or that they're
can live with. And and if you can manage
very difficult to be definitive around
yields pushing higher on twos up by six
for there to be uh an exponential jump
expectations. So, you need more term
of almost nowhere. We kind of set the
this hour, we'll catch up with Matt Stoy
other aggressively.
longer term that that correlation is
And so in the in the inflation higher
into traditional equities and and high
but you know in terms of just kind of
right now we've kind of ripped a you
really tough in this environment.
uh has an end date to it. It's hard to
Why the difference there, that slight
small cap performance to perform up to
that sector.
trigger a widespread markdown.
disruption, then current risk pricing is
headlines worth going over. Done it a
threats in order to reach some sort of
to pay, you can skip the line. And it
that's being most affected by by the
disconnect on the physical side.
dollars. Yeah, got it right up there on
Street, we'll just say massively long
how much upside is left?
demand shift now. We're shifting away
closely are you watching that especially
Well, you know what happened before we
contracted over the past couple of days.
away. Crude setting the tone for
ago of the OECD. Um the inflation side
that leads to lower growth here.
uh putting the pressure on them at this
three and a half.
deadline for talks between the US and
of what the United States wants would be
person. So really where we are at this
seeing some vessels go through but
talk to Inennis Mcy of Oxford Economics.
impactful there. that's much more the uh
of the typical sort of vulnerabilities
even for Asia. This is going to be a
Look, there's a huge amount of
of the second round impacts through
on um demand on a firm's hiring
Bloomberg brief. Yara has more. Hey
today with the Mets hosting reigning
stock market is pricing in uh that this
We're around 1% higher for the oil
with higher tariff costs but that's fine
people, low income are really getting
……（接近结尾）……
week after week I think eventually we're
going to see some form of capitulation
for the markets. Sarah, do you think
that there is complacency right now when
you talk about the risk markets that
have been uh well bid and people have
been buying in or do you have more
comfort right now in the bond space
where people seem a lot more concerned?
I think the bond market is telling us um
more of a signal than the equity
markets. We've dealt with a lot of
uncertainty here today. You all were
just talking about it between this war,
Venezuela, what's going with AI, what's
going on with private credit. There's a
lot to be concerned about. I am a little
surprised that equities are sort of
just, you know, walking right by it.
People are still coming in to buy.
That's a sign of a lot of cash on the
sidelines that wants to get into these
markets and rely on that earnings
growth. I I don't think today is the day
where I'd be stepping in to buy
equities. I would wait to see are we
going to get more clarity around a
ceasefire for this war because markets
dayto-day are going to trade on whether
we think we're getting a ceasefire in
the near term or we're not. Today, of
course, we do not see a ceasefire coming
anytime soon. Sarah, what is the signal
right now from bond markets? Is it
worries about an inflationary spiral? Is
it worries about some sort of fiscal
impulse needed to respond to some sort
of cost of living crisis? Or is this
just buyers stepping back from around
the world as they look to pad their own
uh consumers balance sheets? Well, bond
markets are worried about are two
things. One is that inflation is going
to spike and it's going to be more
structural and secondarily that'll lead
to the Fed having an inability to cut
rates and because we'll end up in the
stagflationary environment where the
Fed's hands are tied. But that is not my
base case scenario. I do think that we
will get to a period where this war
either causes the economy to slow enough
where the Fed needs to cut rates to
support the economy and consumers or
they look and even if we have an
extended bump to inflation, we realize
it was oil price driven. Once we're past
this war, oil should settle back into
the $70 to $80 range. The Fed can look
at that and say, "Okay, we'll get past
this period of inflation like we did
during the COVID pandemic. we can uh put
a rate cut in near the end of this year,
another one in early 2027 and go from
there.
great to touch base. Sarah Malik there
of New breaking down this market. This
is how the stage is set heading into the
weekend and this South and Post
deadline. We're in the talks about talks
phase. It's always a tricky moment.
You've got both sides trying to anchor
to the extreme and build leverage as we
go on. And this can break either way.
And that's what's difficult for
financial market participants just
knowing that you're facing substantial
two-way risk. Something we keep talking
about as we inch closer and closer to
that deadline.
the market to use uh to get more
leverage. I mean that's the other aspect
of this that also is giving people some
agida. This idea that not only do uh oil
prices move in response to an actual
escalation but Iran wants oil prices to
go higher and the rest of the world is
looking for lower energy prices to save
off an economic crisis. Who's going to
win? It is a very uncomfortable
position.
tomorrow morning as we count you down
literally counting down the hours to the
end of that deadline. the president of
course with great discretion to push it
back even further and say the talks are
continuing. We'll keep monitoring the
latest headlines for you. Tomorrow we'll
catch up with Russ Costrick of Black
Rockck, Joe Davis of Vanguard, Michael
Gapen of Morgan Stanley, Mona Mahajan of
Edward Jones as we count you down to a
pretty big weekend potentially for the
war between Iran and the United States.
Your equity market in this session lows
were down about 1% on the S&amp;P 500. Bond
yields are higher and crude keeps on
gaining up by around 5%. WTI $94 brick
crude 107 from New York City this
morning. Good morning. This was
Bloomberg surveillance.