TITLE: Greg Brew on Surging Energy and the 'Strategic Trap' of the War in Iran | Odd Lots
CHANNEL: Odd Lots
DURATION_S: 3305  DENSITY: standard  REQ summary=3 core=4
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-20T08:06:09+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BXPckuHDgUc
SHA256: 670182450136830d645cdf0484731897e434b65883e0526fb17fa950ea6cc356

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [20%] Strait of Hormuz is closed. 20% of the
  [15%] think I've seen numbers like 15% etc. I
  [70%] supplies 70% of Iran's gas supply
  [2024] for instance, there was one in 2024, the
  [17%] from Reuters, Iran's attacks damage 17%
  [90%] terminal. Uh it handles around 80 to 90%
  [1.5] around 1.5 1.6 million barrels a day.
  [1.6] around 1.5 1.6 million barrels a day.
  [1960] 1960s by Western companies that were
  [150000] 150,000 barrels of oil a day if they
  [1200] coastline, it's about 1,200 km long.
  [2026] we entered 2026, there was this broad
  [1.4] release 1.4 million barrels a day. It's
  [10%] that's 10% of global supply that is just

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Why did Iran actually decide to go after
countries that did not attack them?
Not only its strategy for surviving this
war, but its strategy for improving its
deterrence and reducing the possibility
of this happening again, a future
attacks. The The bigger scenario that
the Iranians are more concerned about is
a scenario where Iran turns into Lebanon
or Iran turns into Syria, a country that
you can just bomb, that Israel can just
bomb whenever it wants to.
They're very, very concerned about that
becoming the new status quo.
So, that is what's driving their
strategy. They want to restore
deterrence. And their way of doing that
is indicating to everyone,
the United States, Israel, the GCC, but
the entire world, that
attacking us is not worth it.
That we will respond by imposing more
pain, more costs on you than you can
impose on us. The Iranians love to
demonstrate this. They love to talk
about this, and I think they are
illustrating it, that they are more
resilient, that they can take the hit,
that it doesn't matter that the US and
Israel have air superiority over Iran.
The Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal.
of March 19th around 9:00 a.m. and
have to throw in the hour and the
minutes, 9:07 a.m.
now is just the degree to which people
are re- realizing more and more energy
infrastructure in the region. We're
talking about the Iran war, of course.
More and more energy infrastructure in
the region. I mean, it's literally on
fire.
having recorded these sort of emergency
podcasts over the past, I guess, 2 weeks
now is that
we will talk about a hypothetical, like,
you know, oh, what happens if Iran
strikes the Port of Salalah in Oman? And
then a couple days later it happens,
which gives you an indication of how
quickly things are progressing. And one
thing that has happened in just the past
day or so since we recorded an episode
with Bob Bracket on Nat Gas is we had
Israel bombing Iran's um infrastructure
in the South Pars gas field, and that
was kind of a hypothetical that we
talked about with Bob. happened shortly
after. And then after that,
we also had Iran bombing Qatari energy
assets in the South Pars. So, it's
it's just um
progressing quickly.
Dylan Griffiths has put together a
really excellent list. I mean, the thing
was so we did that episode sort of near
the beginning or I've lost track of the
time with Rory Johnston. And he said the
closure of the Strait of Hormuz was
itself the sort of hypothetical that was
so extreme that it was almost not worth
contemplating. So, I think to you your
framing is really excellent. All of
these things that are just sort of like
you think about them as very bad
possibilities, and one by one they
become realities. Our colleague Dylan
Griffiths has a really excellent just
sort of list of energy infrastructure
damaged in Iran war piece, and it just
goes down through the list. One of the
refineries in the world shut down as a
precautionary measure. Uh Ras Tanura uh
a refinery in um Saudi Arabia halted.
Various pipelines, gas facilities, and
so forth. There's just a lot that's
damaged, which of course means that the
Strait of Hormuz is only one aspect.
Maybe it becomes maybe it gets opened,
but then there's of course the question
of like all the infrastructure that's
been damaged and how long it takes to
come back online at anything near full
capacity.
questions, I think. One is that it seems
like the US and maybe Israel to some
extent weren't expecting Iran to hit
back against various energy
infrastructure assets or even cities
this hard, right? And I think Trump has
said a couple of times that he didn't
expect Iran to for instance like go
after targets in the UAE and places like
that. So questions over what's happening
there, like why did that become a
strategy? And then secondly, the thing
I'm wondering is how much financial
pressure does this actually put on Iran?
Because at the moment, yes, some of its
big gas producing things are getting hit
and damaged and it seems like that's
going to cause some fallout. But on the
other hand, if oil prices are spiking
and if Iran can still get out some oil
to a certain extent to places like
China, does that is that actually a
fiscal windfall for them? Like can they
withstand some of this chaos uh better
than perhaps other places can?
obviously a lot of this translates into
higher prices at the pump. For some of
the region regioning Gulf countries, I
mean it's just it's GDP catastrophe,
right? And it's some of the estimates
for what some of the countries are
expected to see a reduction in GDP. I
think I've seen numbers like 15% etc. I
mean we're talking about you know,
that's depression level declines and so
forth. And so the degree to which this
drives a serious wedge between Gulf
countries and the United States is of
course obviously a big part of the story
here. Anyway, and of course that makes
the logic of the strikes, right? I mean
this is that makes the Iran's logic seem
very clear, drive a wedge between US and
its friends in the region and so forth.
And so anyway, we need to understand
both better just how serious this damage
is, the long-term fallout because this
is very important for me economic story,
and then the way to think about this
damage in the context of war strategy
itself and what constitutes success for
Iran here as it tries to defend itself.
ground in Iran because of course we
don't have very good insight at any
moment into in time into domestic
Iranian politics.
really do have the perfect guest,
someone we've spoken to before, someone
we turn to frequently when the
discussion is about Iran or it's about
oil and certainly some combination of
the two. We're going to be speaking of
course perfect guest Greg Brew senior
analyst at Eurasia Group. He is the
author of two books that directly relate
to this, Petroleum and Progress in Iran,
Oil Development to the Cold War, and the
Struggle for Iran Oil Autocracy and the
Cold War. So uh Greg, thank you so much
for coming back on Odd Lots.
back.
you write these academic books with
academic prices with names that sound
like academic books and suddenly
suddenly they're actually in demand.
They're
They're current events.
very boring and only a handful of people
cared about them and now that and now
the number is slightly more than a
handful perhaps.
don't we just start off with this sort
of very big picture which is let's just
put on your energy analyst hat for a
second then we'll get into all this sort
of understanding Iran more, you know,
from your energy analyst hat, how
shocked are you by the sort of scale of
destruction that we've seen with energy
infrastructure over the last couple of
weeks?
officially shocked after the events of
the last 24 hours where you saw both
Israel attack
the South Pars gas field in Iran which
supplies 70% of Iran's gas supply
and then quite quickly within hours Iran
responding by striking the Ras Laffan
LNG processing facility in Qatar.
Uh but of course over the last few weeks
we've seen widespread
uh strikes on energy targets throughout
the region. And then of course the
closure of the Strait of Hormuz which as
you mentioned and I I've had very
similar experiences to Rory in this way
over the last few years whenever anybody
asked me, you know, is Iran going to
close the Strait of Hormuz? I would say
only as a last resort.
feels that its survival is being
threatened. And you know, most of the
time I've been saying we're not there
yet. You know, whatever crisis this is
it's it's not that bad. But this war
this attack was interpreted by Iran as a
threat to its survival, a threat to the
regime's survival. And it responded in a
way that it has been saying it would
respond for a long time. So I have been
shocked but if I were a better Iran and
……（中部抽样）……
energy analyst maybe I shouldn't have
Iran, right? So why this reluctance to
Israel assassinating supreme leader Ali
was assassinated. Uh
there was this belief that, "Okay,
Like, this this isn't going to turn into
the first week or so of the war because
some basis that was, you know, that was
to fall. And in the past, Iran had done
was this belief that, "Oh, Iran's not
understanding that Trump was going to
really settling in how bad this is, how
politics in Iran better than most energy
going to taco because he can't stand oil
a threat." And as you mentioned, he
crazy highs of Monday, April 9th or
economic pain and prolong this longer
challenging than diving into the
individual, a person who'd been in the
gas prices, right? Keeping gas prices
successful. He talked about it a lot in
global oil supply is being disrupted or
Like he doesn't care. It's curious. I
short-term win and seeing the the the
uh or or putting pressure on Russia.
a It's a big deal. And to taco now would
escape looking very tough, you know,
and that eventually they will outlast
talking about oil prices, not many
start rambling in the in in the hotel
actually looks like in his mind for this
the administration, and perhaps a belief
a group of Iranian leaders would come to
individuals they expected to lead that
disappeared in the opening hours,
navy, as the White House loves to to to
the president to justify the war. The
them again." That's insufficient because
was done to them uh following last
Also, So, the war ends now,
militarily, they've done that, but it's
also strategically viable off-ramp. The
sensitive, but I have this feeling, this
the Cold War, etc.,
to rock music and live as Westerners,
everyone will suddenly live the free
think tank thinkers in DC view Iran, and
Secretary of State Marco Rubio likes to
the regime of the Islamic Republic.
dress, how you can act, the kinds of
aren't obeying them anymore, and the
regional proxies like Hezbollah or the
onerous Western and US sanctions.
from running for office. There are
it's an incredibly, you know,
political experiment. There is still
super hardline candidate, the candidate
demonstrations, when there are official
support of a hardcore of maybe 10 to 15
monitoring, uh, political dissent,
you know, fighting the good fight. Uh,
fabric of the Islamic Republic, the
They also happen to have all of the
context where the mass of people don't
illustrative of
off-ramps here. I mean, one thing we
there have been some rumblings recently
that's actually an off-ramp that he's
fans of the Trump administration at this
it makes him look quite weak if he
Pakistan, with India to allow a couple
problematic for Trump to decide to wind
capabilities,
missiles and it has a lot of drones, and
been preparing for this for a long time.
comfortable using the straight. On the
United States, the Trump administration,
others.
bomb the Iranians, not just protect
own."
finds itself in. It's fighting an enemy
through decapitation. You know, like
proving to be
Hormuz when it launched this war.
relationship?
assume that the war is going to end in
having a couple of drones and missiles
comfortable attacking them in
much as much pain as they can on
And this puts the GCC states in a very,
is so dangerous to them.
most of them are going to pursue closer
need the US to restock their supply of
they have their own militaries. They are
US all the more important. But, that's
balance that by per- perhaps pursuing
pursuing closer ties. Uh Saudi and
even though Iran is attacking Saudi
improve their security rather than
not attack them? You know, Gulf
and I count myself in that bracket was
of this happening again, of future
Israel can just bomb whenever it wants
deterrence. And their way of doing that
pain, more costs on you than you can
that it doesn't matter that the US and
the Iran the Iranian government, the
the GCC is a more tempting target. These
targets the Iranians have been going
its civil defense, you know, systems.
And on top of that, it speaks directly,
island of stability with tourism, with
your economic development plans
relationship with the United States is
they're US instruments, and that makes
like Dubai and Abu Dhabi at the moment,
something like that. So, stuff is
of Qatar's LNG capacity for three to
it's I researched a little bit about it
had to cut that reference for for for
knee at Well, anyway, tell us what Kharg
what Kharg Island is.
north end of the Persian Gulf. Uh so, a
around 1.5 1.6 million barrels a day.
one. The two reasons for it is it's uh
incidentally, it was built in the early
designed for. It's also close to Iran's
it's well positioned.
there is a a belief, there is a theory
you want because you've cut off their
with that theory is that I don't think
built up
if they lose Kharg, they can still
Iran suddenly can't export any oil from
they can't move much,
150,000 barrels of oil a day if they
moving oil that are not as easily
very profitable for uh groups attached
get it for virtually nothing, and then
which would probably become even more
psychology of the event. The Americans,
misunderstands the the uh
They will respond very negatively to any
greater financial pressure and an
I wanted to ask um exactly on this
And so I'm curious, but assuming that if
to see it sort of like
on Iran. I mean, part of the I think
find found ways around the sanctions,
let's say, take Kharg, but also to try
it would have to be sustained for quite
Iran uh smuggles oil through Iraq. It
this illicit kind of gray market
including military force and
environment of higher prices, which only
the domestic price of gasoline or oil
someone to find that and move it onto
making a fortune finding a way to like,
All right, let's just go back to the
there there has been this obvious
take this much longer.
of oil reflects perhaps an unrealistic
it look like in your crystal ball?
this year. High relative to what we
demand. Demand growth was going to be
below $75 a barrel by the end of the
Uh the the the front month the Brent
out via Saudi and UAE pipelines, but
I mean, Joe, you mentioned the damage
time, and has now cut production for for
Like, they're they're they're keeping
which they very well could, prices could
……（接近结尾）……
expected this at all.
That that the Iranians would respond to
this kind of of an attack with by
playing their principal Trump card. So,
between the effectiveness of the Iranian
strategy and the lack of a strong US
response, a strong US effective response
has been really surprising to me.
Love catching up with you. Truly the
perfect guest. Thank you so much for
coming back on Odd Lots.
our guests are perfect guests.
No, that was a fascinating conversation.
I mean, I think he laid out very clearly
the strategic difficulties that the US
now faces. And actually, you know, you
mentioned um Kharg Island sounding like,
you know, a place where great powers
like
Alexander the Great, you know, whatever.
things that still amazes me is that
geography still matters in the world,
right? Like you have all this high-tech
high-tech missiles, high-tech drones,
but actually we're still limited by
geography in many ways.
thought when he mentioned how
mountainous the area is around the
Strait of Hormuz and it's like, okay,
why can't the US simply take out Iran's
capacity to fire drones and missiles at
the ships going through? Well, it's
heavily fortified deep in the mountains
in the area, not easy to spot, not easy
to target, etc. So, yes, geography,
geology, etc. extremely important uh to
this question.
this is a very serious conversation and
this is not an a very serious comment,
but you know, he mentioned um very large
crude carriers, VLCCs. I love how
literal that name is. Whenever I hear
anyone mention that, I just think like
there was a guy one day who invented the
ship, and he was like, "You know what?
We're not going to call it like a brig
or a schooner or something. We're just
going to call it what it is, a very
large crude carrier."
You know, I think look, there was a lot
there. The other thing, and I think it
was the last point, is this idea that,
and it's sort of ominous, which is
everyone sort of assumed that the Navy
would have had a straight of Hormuz
plan, given the amount of time and
energy that's been thought about
contingencies and what a disaster this
would be.
"Oh, what? What are we doing? We're
going to have a plan." You know, it's
very Everything so felt so far is we are
planning to have a plan, and so forth.
And so, the idea that you start this war
with at least the possibility of the
strait being closed, and then it's
closed, and you basically do nothing,
and nothing passes at all. Um, pretty
worrisome on I suppose both a sort of
immediate and long-term level about what
that the state of planning, and then the
state of military capacity for what
should have been at least a uh a
possibility understood from the very
beginning.
at play here, which is like every day
that goes on that sees some significant
energy asset, whether it's in Iran or in
Qatar or elsewhere in the Gulf region,
that like echoes for months, right?
Like, the daily time frame for those
assets getting destroyed is very short.
So, just in two or three weeks, we've
seen a lot of stuff get damaged. But,
the time frame for the actual impacts of
all of that to come to fruition and
ripple throughout the economy are very,
very long.
every day this goes on, with every
additional bit of infrastructure damage,
it just gets worse and worse.
are one missile, right? And in some of
these instances, and you're talking
about years of damage to infrastructure,
which is pretty ominous for any sort of
expectation that
again, Trump could talk to, right? He
could declare war and still talk about
years of repercussions from this. So, um
yeah, it's pretty serious consequences
to all of this.
leave it there?
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway.
me at The Stalwart. Follow our guest
Gregory Brew. He's at GBrew24.
Follow our producers Carmen Rodriguez at
Carmen Arman, Dash Bennett at Dash Bot,
and Caleb Brooks at Caleb Brooks.
should check out our daily newsletter.
You can find that at bloomberg.com/odd
lots.
topics 24/7 in our Discord,
then please leave a comment or like the
video or better yet, subscribe.