TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/3/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8662  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-03T16:19:39+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yxqKOs9l45w
SHA256: 547cbbd08bf2d71dac0a152ca1e860b798f359c386612aa8ea0b78ef89cab4ee

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [2022] &gt;&gt; Is it 2022 volume two for the Europeans?
  [7%] in today's session down by 7%. So the
  [3%] morning. The stock 600 is down by 3%.
  [2%] like 2% this morning, down by 1.7. Let's
  [2026] second half of 2026 in the US. I'm
  [8%] futures on the S&amp;P down by 1.8% 8% so
  [1.8%] S&amp;P down by 1.8%. The DAX is down by
  [50%] are. We had a move of 40 to 50% year to
  [100%] going to get 100% protection. Um, but
  [20%] potentially to shut off 20% of global
  [1.4%] down by 1.4% recovering somewhat. They
  [15%] yesterday I think maybe 15% from high to
  [1.8] things for you. Negative 1.8 on the S&amp;P,
  [4.1%] call this 4.1%. Off the back of this,
  [2020] since the peak in 2020. So, if you can
  [4%] rising more than 4% in the pre-market.
  [3000] they were around $3,000 per family. And
  [2025] 2025. That means that we have all paid
  [6%] now up by more than 6% and pulling back
  [1970] not the 1970s although there are
  [70%] gas prices are up about 70% since the
  [40%] reserve, has been depleted by almost 40%
  [2024] the first time since July 2024.
  [1.6%] 1.6% on the S&amp;P 500. On the NASDAQ, down
  [80%] than 80% on European gas futures. And
  [12000] cancellations topping 12,000 around the
  [5%] where you have a 5% hit or a 10% hit to
  [10%] where you have a 5% hit or a 10% hit to
  [8326] this morning by 7%. Brent at 8326 with
  [45%] software stocks, it makes up 45% of the
  [12%] it's 11 12% blended outperformance. If I
  [8343] high by more than 7% 8343 on Brent. WTI
  [25%] that this market craves. It's a 25%
  [150%] silver was 150% above the 200 day moving
  [125%] has not made new highs here. It's 125%
  [75000] limit Chinese firms to buying 75,000 of
  [2.6] down by 2.6 on the Russell. A notable
  [35677] 360 now at 35677, up by six on 10. Let's
  [8.6%] 8.6% on the session. a big question
  [2.3] the NASDAQ, down by 2.3. On the Russell,

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
you have to price in a little bit more
risk.
not fear consequences.
disrupt markets.
the fact that we kind of had this move
ahead of time.
America. They seem to be rising to the
occasion on just about every single
issue we've seen. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, positioning for weeks, not
days.
by far military in the world. And we
will easily prevail. But whatever the
time is, it's okay. Whatever it takes. I
would never hang hang a time frame from
our perspective. The commander-in-chief
sets the up tempo and terms of this
fight.
it takes for as long as it takes as Iran
is threatening to fire on traffic going
through the straight of Hormuz. The
conflict is sending crude through 80 and
gas prices surging. Energy is going
through a huge repricing.
crude. It's happening even more when it
comes to natural gas. And Europe is very
much front and focus. European natural
gas prices are up about 70% since the
European closed and we're getting news
that uh Qatar Energy is stopping the
output of some other minerals as well.
There is a real question about what
Europe in particular is experiencing
even as the United States experiences
the highest bump up in gas prices going
back almost 20 years.
Check out the underperformance on the
equity side. Futures this morning on the
S&amp;P down by 1.8%. The DAX is down by
close to four. Italy, Italian equities
down by close to five. In the European
bond market, look at this. Yields much
much higher across the curve from the UK
to Germany to Italy. At the front end of
the UK, we're seeing a move at the long
end as well. Tens are up by 15 basis
points. We're pricing in the prospect of
tighter policy, pricing out rate cuts at
the Bank of England, and pricing in the
very real risk of rate hikes at the ECB
shock. Yes. However, it is going to hike
the prices of goods across the region
just like we saw as you mentioned in
2022 in the wake of the Ukraine war. A
really interesting note from Bloomberg
economics analysts where they came out
and they said not only does this
pressure gas and oil prices in the
European region, but also puts pressure
on governments to spend more to support
some of their consumers to lower prices.
We're hearing noise around that in the
United States. Potentially, we could get
that kind of effort in Europe. What does
that do to the politics of the moment
when there already is so much
disgruntled sentiment among the
population?
It's an unfortunate situation for the
Europeans to be in. They've decreased
their dependence on Russian gas and
increased their dependence on Katar's
LNG. And all of a sudden, as you point
out, LG production has basically
plummeted in the region. And now we look
at these moves. Are we going to see the
big trade of the year upended as well?
The global equity outperformance in
places like Japan. Japan's trading
softer this morning. Places like the
Cosby. The Cosby got absolutely hammered
in today's session down by 7%. So the
big winners of the year, the big losers
of the last 24 hours.
exert the most punishment on people that
it possibly can. And right now you had
people overweight international
equities. You had people overweight
Europe. You had people saying X uh US
the rest of the world looks good. And
you're saying Samsung is going to
support everything in a Cosby. And
suddenly people are taking a look and
saying, "Wait a second. The dollar is
the haven." And suddenly there are weak
spots that are potentially uh
exemplified by some of this conflict.
moves. The Bloomberg terminal is
lighting up. That's for sure. Crude is
high by more than 7% 8343 on Brent. WTI
is 76. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Christopher Strategus with
global markets on edge. Horge Leon of
Ricestead Energy on whether oil could
hit triple digits and Torsson's lock of
Apollo as inflation fears rock the bond
market. We begin this hour with stocks
falling and oil breaking back through 80
as the Middle East conflict grinds on.
Chris Verona Stratigus a bed company
writing a price first approach is about
as useful of a skill set as there is to
navigate the unknowns. Chris joins us
now for more. Chris, good morning.
upending the cyclical recovery
worldwide? I think we're going to learn
here, you know, going into this um if
you had to find what were some fissures
in the cyclical recovery, it was the
message from bond yields the last couple
months, right? The expectation was bond
yields would be up, they were down. We
were trying to ask why. I think the
other question out there was why was
discretionary acting so poorly in a
world where tax refunds and stimulus
were supposed to be the big stories in
26. So there were already some question
mark. You saw some weakness in the banks
the last couple weeks. Um I think the
harder question as as we look out you
know over the next um number of months
is are we returning to this environment
where bond yields up uh reemerge as the
hedge here and if you look at the price
action the last couple days um it's bond
yields up particularly in Europe.
consumer
discretionary stocks and you saw that in
the bank names as well and you've talked
about that repeatedly. discretionary in
anything exposed to the consumer
yesterday got hammered staples too and
they're a big winner of the year so far.
Is that a big flashing light for you
right now that those names those sectors
that part of the equity market can't get
off the map? I think it speaks to this
idea, you know, we talk about price
first, right? And you know, one of the
conundrums for people was why was energy
getting better, right? Really at the
expense of consumer discretionary and
energy's improvement doesn't date back
four weeks or six weeks or eight weeks.
I mean, energy started to improve in our
work in August, September, October. Um,
it could have been cyclical recovery. It
could have been inflation pressures
building. It could have been as we maybe
learn now something um war
I is the market the kind of this
discounting mechanism that's saying hey
energy was getting better regardless of
this and if we get any sell the news in
energy or oil over the next couple weeks
that's actually what you want to be
buying as opposed to any relief rally in
consumer discretionary that's where we
are right here I think energy is the
leadership I think it's been the
leadership it's certainly the leadership
in Europe I mean even in places like
Japan it's the leadership and certainly
um the story here as well
of monetary policy around the world. The
RBA said every meeting is a live
meeting. We saw a headline cross the
Bloomberg about 2 hours ago pricing in
the prospect of higher rates at the ECB,
not lower rates at the European Central
Bank. Is that where this is heading now?
Tied to financial conditions.
careful reading into monetary policy
just yet. I mean, just go back three or
four weeks ago. If you look at the shape
of like the sofur curve, um the market's
still pricing easier policy in the
second half of 2026 in the US. I'm
skeptical that you're going to see the
Europeans hiking into this in the back
half of this year. Um you could convince
me on the Aussies going again. It's one
of the stronger economies in the world.
It's one of the stronger currencies in
the world where bond yields have
generally look different than rest of
world. Um I would be very skeptical to
the idea that the Europeans are going to
be hiking into this over the next number
of months. If you really uh do follow
the price, yesterday was a fascinating
case study because first uh the
……（中部抽样）……
knee-jerk reaction was actually a bid
might suggest. And you know on that
something different
Europe is I didn't like the bank stocks
get tested in Japan here. We love it
on silver. No, it could have been
of has the hattrick here. Um, you know,
embassy in Riyad, Saudi Arabia. Iran
limit Chinese firms to buying 75,000 of
DAX to Italy. In the bond market, a
of the discussion for us on Bloomberg
we're going to find out more this week.
think that there's privately a lot of
Well, what's the plan? Especially
does seem that that part of the
an emotional connection to the Muslim
amount of destruction that's occurred to
thousands of dollars. I mean, how is
being fought is so different. In this
the world who certainly could uh insert
across 60 countries and extensive
the NASDAQ, down by 2.3. On the Russell,
up by 15 in the UK in Germany up by
up 40% this morning up another let's
don't think this president wants to get
market was set up going into this.
the amount of high power chips any
on our radar this morning. Our top
with shipping traffic through the
in Saudi Arabia and I mean you could
lasts for days. The longer it lasts the
action is because of the traffic in the
hours and days to come
the straight of Hermoose for a for a few
surprised on our price action yesterday.
price pressure.
sir. Oh Leon there of Ricead Energy.
to do quote whatever it takes in Iran as
explanation of its suggestions. It's
punch. On one hand, there's a question
is doing fine. So, here's the latest
is the hit the hardest on inflation.
enough economic momentum in a country to
actually getting legs. How much could
have three very strong tailwinds from AI
what headlines should we then expect
course, what tax refunds normally are,
on that is to look at consumer
challenging for the ECB and the Bank of
infrastructure and spend unlimited on
to catch up to Sllock there of Apollo.
seeing the traffic grind to a halt
a murky situation.
Bloomberg Surant starts right now. Your
a significant disruption.
learned this in 2022 that Europe is
hammered in today's session. The big
challenge some of the uptrend and makes
our base case, you know, we said this
extreme scenarios are going to start to
for a downside scenario.
they could potentially win in this
to rebalance the the portfolio.
know, one currency or being overweight
dollar at this point.
far it goes on on the um on the defense
unknowns. You don't have an edge. You
halted since Saturday as the world's
program. We talked this morning and
there is a real conversation from our
that. This terroristic regime led by
these prices rise, but uh President
something we don't, or we could be
higher still. Uh but nevertheless, the
then of course there are also bigger
And as you guys have reported, a fifth
exploring a plan to export crude through
concerned about developments on the
threat to energy supplies? Is it the uh
thinking about things. Thank you, sir.
today and the reason why you're seeing
playbook? We'll have that conversation
points. The epicenter of the repricing
than say Europe which is uniquely
particular occasion.
rotate into retailers and other areas of
names including the airlines energy cost
more punishing on Iran than it is right
and you just wonder how far can you go
meeting with Chinese officials in Paris
of, you know, significant stance or
been, which is fade this by the dip.
which is when you saw massive hits to
weeks and months rather than days.
with par. I don't think we'll get there,
does have the ability to end this
sort of security premium at least on
have. Two years ago, Hui started their
delivering the spring statement in the
probably going to be above target now in
think about rate hikes to come.
ground. It really raises a question, how
integrity. Meanwhile, we are seeing
100, but it's a short and not prolonged,
seven, 10's up by six. A 10ear just
prolonged, then all all bets are off the
direction, this makes it stickier for
the range for the year of four to four
near-term shock to your point, it
absolving some of the taxes on gasoline,
only important now in the context of it
ramification for risk assets? Not
negative9. The payrolls report a few
talking about the stock market. They're
not fear consequences.
prices in Europe. It continues for a
go given the fact that not only is it a
respond given that they get a
of England. We're pricing in the risk of
we're still down by 1.4% on the S&amp;P.
oil up, volatility up, right? The VIX is
most acutely affected here. Again, you
on rates. I mean, remember at call it
It's a good question, Lisa. So,
no. I wouldn't be a buyer of the long
this morning. I think what's key for
that a lot of people were really itching
big structural moves under the surface
do? Is it really going to be a tax
US economy is going to be a key feature
than people realize just because if
that Iran's air defense, air force,
next, we'll get you some morning calls.
something like 30 plus big moves in the
what does this do to the fiscal side
Calvin McDonald could call for an
people were like, well, I don't really
highincome consumer share to Walmart.
home or less bad. Um they have a long
traffic and consumer confidence. But I
across the board. How difficult is it to
Walmart can offer just by sheer nature
the squeeze middle? How are the
We've talked about the utility costs,
gas prices go up, where are people going
seeing right now in Iran and the trickle
Chinese foreign minister, the Wangi
basis points. On twos, on 10's up by
disruption, the disaster of 2022 that's
based out of West Texas. And the
The tax refunds will get over the next
shipped out. And that will mean declines
We're going to hear from a couple of Fed
doesn't have that luxury in quite the
inflation. So, uh the central banks have
yesterday by double digits, up again
So, um, you know, we we're impacted
along at at what I would consider to be
inflation because the Fed will look
unlikely to turn into an inflationary
three months from now, I think that
something different. They're talking
prices will be higher, but I think the
the you know the the the huge
finally taking hold. It's aiming to end
carriers to run special evacuation
……（接近结尾）……
congestion can lead to spikes in prices
and all kinds of problems.
people reflected on the energy shock of
22, the conditions coming out of the
pandemic. Are there parallels here for
you?
I mean this the you know the history
always seems to rhyme and and it is
about that that congestion and how it
flows through the supply chain and
builds up in unexpected places and now
it all depends on how long this lasts.
If it if it lasts for a long time you're
going to see major reroutings. In fact,
in fact Flexport's one of the largest
providers of ocean freight in the world.
And we built this pro uh this new
product called Atlas. It's
atlas.flexport.com where you can monitor
all the ships in real time and see where
they're sailing. And so it's actually
going to be a a big challenge for us to
see can we keep this thing up to date as
the ships get diverted as services are
less um less reliable. Um we have seen
that movie before. So yeah I would
expect to see it the services start to
degrade and be more difficult to
operate.
things as dominoes start to fall. Are
you thinking about secondary bottlenecks
that might emerge as well and where
might they emerge?
Yes, I mentioned a few of those in in
unexpected places like congestion, but
you're going to see pricing be a global
phenomenon here. Ocean freight prices,
we already we're right in the middle as
contracting season is just starting to
kick off and all the ocean carriers have
told us this week, not all, but most of
the ocean carriers, and I think it'll be
all pretty soon, have told us that all
previous discussions on ocean freight
contracts for this year out the window.
they expect prices to go way up from
where they are today. We're already
hearing rumors of $5,000 a container
from China to the US East Coast, which
that's almost that's more than double
where it's been for the last few months.
So, yeah, we're already seeing big
spikes and that will lead to all kinds
of secondary effects.
just be a reflection of extended transit
times as well. Could you give us an idea
as some of this traffic reroutes, what
the extension to transit times might be
for, say, traffic between Europe and
Asia?
Yeah. Well, in in the ocean market, it's
really just what which of these strings
these services call in? Jebali is the
ninth largest port in the world. Abu
Dhabi has a large port. There's several
other important ports within the inside
the straight of Hormuse. So, the the
first thing is okay, which services call
there? Those are going to be heavily
disrupted and because they're going to
have to stop and unload all of those
containers. One of the ocean CEOs I
talked to said they were going to unload
in Oman, but of course, the port of Oman
got hit with a missile yesterday, too. A
ship near Oman. So it's really difficult
to say exactly how each carrier is going
to reroute things, but that that will
for sure lead to services service
issues. Uh let's not forget the air
freight market where the Middle East is
a major hub for air freight. We estimate
around 18% of all the global cargo
capacity for air freight has been taken
offline just temporarily. We haven't
seen planes get shot down but
temporarily and a lot you know you have
Emirates and Qatar uh um Etihad all of
these are major cargo airlines that
operate in that region and Asia to
Europe flights tend to go over either
stop in the Middle East or fly directly
over Iran. So just big disruptions to
the air freight market as well and and
there it's a relatively capacity
constrained market in general. You can
see huge spikes in price. Yeah. from a
small disruption in capacity.
love to catch up again in the next week
or so. Just get an update on how things
are developing. That was the flexport
CEO Ryan Pettison. The conversation is
going to continue here at Bloomberg
tomorrow. We'll catch up with Sebastian
Page of Tro, Chris Harvey of CIBC,
Mirror Pandit of JP Morgan, and a view
from the Federal Reserve, Governor
Steven right here on Bloomberg from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Have a wonderful day. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.