2025-09-04_达利欧纵谈AI_ 70%时间比我强_ 未来竞争力的10条行动法则_68b8d2ff5faf368659e74a75_原文
2026年07月02日 14:10
发言人   00:02
I saw in your latest book that you are building a digital ray is that online, it's being beta tested now right now, a eyes are largely being used to give information to the human brain that has to get like where it's making these independent decisions and you're doing IT.
发言人   00:24
And you get to the point that seventy percent of the time you say, oh, it's Better than me under this era, what's the best strategy for individuals? We all bring different skills because we come with different strengths and weaknesses. You have to find your nature and what your inclinations are, and then find roles that are consistent with that to bring you satisfaction and maximize your effectiveness. He must understand that i've had a forty one year relationship, but sent my son to school there when he was eleven. At this chAllenging time of the relationship with our two countries, it's very important to have this personal relationship continue, and I want to be able, at this stage of my life, to pass along whatever I have that has been helpful.
发言人   01:27
听众朋友们大家好，欢迎收听先生，我是利维。上一期与达利欧关于投资理财的对话，很多听友反馈热烈，还有听友总结了自己版本的十条法则，非常的暖心。所以WO一起这一期我们再来聊一聊ai人工智能最近引发了市场热潮，但也带来不少关于工作的担忧。
发言人   01:49
今年在美国AI引发的裁员尤其显眼。桥水现任CEO上两个月说招聘中已经不再侧重有金融背景乃至分析技能的人才，无论是我们国内还是美国的资本市场，近段时间可以说都是被AI主题推着走。之所以与W辽AI1，是因为它在AI使用上走在投资业之先，很早就推动桥水采用了系统化的投资方式。去年桥水推出了一个20亿美元的AI基金，而眼下达利欧正在内测他在打造的数字瑞。
发言人   02:24
他的一位老对手不久前说，基于历史数据的机器学习用于投资效果有限。为什么？达利欧同意这样的说法，但又相信AI能成为比他自己更优秀的投资者乃至决策者。他对我们如何应对AI大潮又会有哪些建议？在这期对话的最后，他还回溯了自己早年的成长教训，更是让我有点意外地表达了对中国朋友41年的感情。在他看来，在AI潜力巨大的今天，人与人之间如何相处尤其重要。
发言人   02:57
话不多说，下面就进入我们的对话。I think A, I nowaday is very powerful, and you acknowledge A, I could replace lots of people. The carbon bridge water CEO.
发言人   03:10
Also recently said, is changing hiring emphasis to people having more conceptual or say, philosophical skills. I'm wondering, under this era, what's the best strategy for individuals? First of all, the two main points, I want to make him the answer to that.
发言人   03:32
We all bring different skills because we come with different strength and weaknesses. And in various ways, knowing that and knowing how to put people together is very, very important. And the ability to measure such things psychometrics helps you individually to understand your strength and weaknesses as you play the game.
发言人   03:58
You know, whatever the game is your career or your life, that is that what you're doing, you have to find your nature and what your inclinations are and then find roles that are consistent with that to bring you satisfaction and and maximize your effectiveness. There's a personality profile test I developed. It's called principles.
发言人   04:21
You it's online, it's free. Take IT. You will understand your nature as a result of that. And if you give IT to somebody else that you have a relationship point, they will understand their nature, and I will tell you about your relationship. So i've always used that sort of computerization of the process to find the different types of people. But in addition to that, what happens is there is a changing of the way that people are thinking.
发言人   04:51
And I think of really appropriately because the great advantage that bridge water has had and continues to have in thinking about not so much what the decision is, but what the decision making criteria ia are and that you convert those decision making criteria ia into decisions. So building a machine in one way or another, where there is a systemized of that, allows that. I think that the comment that was made was around the idea that we don't have to be as mechanical as some people were in the past, and thinking that instead, imagination and curiosity are very important attributes in this.
发言人   05:46
The power is in the question and in the learning, and then then taking that learning and systemized IT to get Better, that is the modern day. And so you don't have to have people who are as mechanical as you had to have in the past. That's right.
发言人   06:04
You mention another interesting tool I saw in your latest book that you are building a digital ray. I didn't find IT on economic principle or com. Is that online? When will we have IT to be able to ask IT? It's being made a tested now because every decision i've made is made according to criteria.
发言人   06:30
And because for the last thirty five years, i've written down these criteria for making decisions. The AI can be taught all of those decisions and you can have a conversation with IT, just like having a conversation with me. And it'll give you those answers, because principles are the foundations of all answers.
发言人   06:56
You give me a situation. I wrote life and work principles. I work market principles, death principles.
发言人   07:03
All of those things are written in my books or conveyed in other ways, so it's all capable. I was speaking to others. The problem that most others have is that they haven't written down their principles.
发言人   07:17
But I can make this a decision maker, and I believe I can make IT a decision maker. That's a Better decision, make her than me, not only because I can process a lot of information and so on, but if I do IT correctly, I can find and create IT. I think you have to create IT.
发言人   07:36
Create, that means find the smartest people who make the best decisions and get their principles be in that which would be Better than me. For example, I participate in certain types of markets, in certain locations. But the objective is to get the smartest people in all areas to make the decisions.
发言人   07:58
But they have to be created the what a large language models now largely do is that give you the average? Okay, but who is the experts? And when you try angularities ong experts, I believe, and I look at criteria, I say that would be somebody that I could trust in that area, and therefore I would take their principles, because I read them and I learned, and I think they're smart.
发言人   08:25
Therefore, I can not only convey the answers to your questions, IT will be the case that when you ask me an interview the next time, perhaps you can interview this digital equivalent of mind, because all that i'm taking in this interview will be put into that AI and I will have IT. And so when you have all of those questions and an exchange, you can have that type of quality of exchange. And I think that's very important.
发言人   08:56
I think that right now, a is are largely being used to give information to the human brain and then their decisions being made and they're not yet at the point where you would say I would trust that decision. I think that has to get like me and my equivalent of a computer just game that IT Operates in partnership where it's making these independent decisions and you're doing IT and you get to the point that seventy percent of the time you say, oh, it's right, it's Better than me so that the process we're going through yeah, there is an interesting question that there seems to be a police or tools nowadays. Recently, Johnson, one came to china, was being asked, and he said he used daily ChatGPT gay cloud and relaxation.
发言人   09:46
And in china, we also have豆包and perhaps deep c and you also mentioned you have this more advanced decision making type of AI IT。Seems there are so much that we can use, but also so much we need to learn to try to catch up with this. AI age.
发言人   10:04
How should we do this? How should we prioritize to, first of all, dive in and use IT, and in the process you'll find the benefits and you'll be able to compare the alternatives. And then always the path in life is triangulation.
发言人   10:25
What I mean is the three smartest people who will disagree with each other and learn from them in terms of the possibilities. So I think he has to do with a combination of learning and application, so that through the application, you'll find out what works Better for you and how to do these things. Yeah, I think bridge what have been systematically using AI for many years, but last year actually launch new dedicated AI found I was talking to griffin in during CDF in march.
发言人   11:01
His current thought is, so far AI is not particularly good at in investing because because its machine learning are mostly about past pattern recognition, which is already how do you think about this? And i'm wondering whats the difference of bridge waters new AI phone compared to pass practices? Well, there's a few things that i'm one of them packing what you said.
发言人   11:27
You must understand cause effect relationships in order to be successful in the markets. So you must understand the fundamental. So I agree with can rapid. I've always had the view that data mining, another words of looking back on history and saying, if I did these things, how would I have done, is not going to be an effective way of managing money. And so in the past, that's not the kind of AI that i've done or bridge water that has done.
发言人   12:04
And by the way, that what I said is IT not gonna work is particularly true in the market because anything that's discovered pretty much is not a value because IT immediately goes into the Price. So if everybody thinks you're onna go up because of a certain reason, and what has happened is everybody knows that and everybody then buys, then I will have been more expensive than won't be valuable. However, what is a central for everybody is to understand the cause of fact relationships.
发言人   12:42
So when I write down my principles, i'm not determining, I am saying, if there's a cause effect relationship, because the causes happen before the effects, if you understand the causes and effect relationships and you understand them at a deep fundamental level as to why they must exist, then you could determine whether the Price is too high on our discounted. And so the AI that i've always done, AI is a term that began in nineteen fifty seven. And there have been various forms of AI.
发言人   13:23
We're using the term a lot more because of the lunch language models and generative AI type of format that's existing now. But there were all forms of AI neural nets and so on. And the AI that that I built and built bridge water around was expert systems.
发言人   13:46
Other words, to know the cause effect relationships and build that into the decision making. And that's what I believe that doesn't change with generator a AI or other forms of AI to, you still have to understand those cause effect relationships. So when I write down principles and I use AI, what i'm doing is defining how does the machine work? How does reality work in terms of the markets or in terms of our lives?
发言人   14:19
How does or geopolitics, whatever IT may be, there's a machine like cause, effect relationships. Do you want to stand those cause effect relationships? That's the expression of principles.
发言人   14:31
I write them down and I pass them along. Like in my new book, I explain the mechanics so you can see the mechanics. And then if when you then AI that, in a sense, all you're doing is capturing that.
发言人   14:47
And so the AI should be a thought partner like the way II described IT, is that what I do is I give IT the criteria, like building a computer dress game that IT will execute, make the moves I would make, make and then when i'm playing the markets, that what IT all happen is IT will make a move by taking into the circumstances and then running them through the criteria to make that move. And then I will also do that in my head. And i'll say you, are those moves the same or are they different? So it's Operating like a partner with me.
发言人   15:24
And when I find that they're different, I tried to reconcile. Why are they different? Am I making the mistake or is IT making the mistake? Why should they be different? And when I do that, that helps to improve us both.
发言人   15:41
And i'd say seventy percent of the time the computer just said, the A, I, or whatever you want to call, that system makes IT Better than I do. Because there are complexities in my decision making process, such as the correlation of the positions held, is north. A lot of information that has to be processed in the brain, including correlations and relationships to those things that are logical.
发言人   16:10
They all must be logical, not just determined, but when they're logical, the computer can process all that information much more accurately, much more quickly. And that's where I find the complimentary relationship. yes.
发言人   16:25
So the current AI is good enough to unpack all that goes in your head. Well, what if you phrase IT as IT is good enough to do that? I would say I work with by giving IT principles that are test in.
发言人   16:42
So I view IT as a thought partner. In doing that, we are looking at cause effect relationships and say, do I want to bet on that cause effect relationship? Okay, that's how IT works.
发言人   16:55
Yeah, that's right. This is very interesting how you think about this on AI between U. S. And china.
发言人   17:02
I think earlier this year, you mentioned china's good application and could pull some risk for some U. S. A. I. companies. How do you think the evolving landscape is is moving? I think that has to do with the systems and the costs of the systems, which I think china does an excEllent job of so far in terms of some of the systems.
发言人   17:28
It's and i'm just now dealing with AI have been a little bit behind on the development, but very quickly catching up and delivering cost effectively, remarkable outcomes. And I think that china has done an excEllent job and is doing a very excEllent job of taking IT and embedding IT in various activities, including in manufactured goods, but also in many areas, and the power will come from the application of IT and IT doesn't have to be the best um a is the most advance. There are various AI chips and so on that can be included in anything, any manufactured goods.
发言人   18:18
And I think like and applying that to robotics and applying that to various areas have been very affected. So I think that there will be different strength and weaknesses, but the power will largely come from the application of the AI, not just the production of the most advanced chips, because even the second to most advanced ed chips are startling. And IT really has to do with the application to be able to make things go Better throughout the society.
发言人   18:56
So certainly, it'll be a very keen competition. And I think if you look at IT broadly in the applications such as in manufacturing sector, which china is dominant in, and applying IT that way or in other areas, pharmaceuticals and so on, very, very powerful. So it'll be an competition.
发言人   19:18
I think the real question is, can there be CoOperation? And can AI be prevented from doing harm to each other? Because AI is also used in conflict, in wars and so on. It's a weapon as a very effective weapon.
发言人   19:37
And so the real question is, how will americans and chinese and other people around the world deal with each other? Will they be wise enough to look and take care of the common good? Or will they be doing each other harm with these advances? Yeah, let me look back to the book.
发言人   19:58
Can you briefly outline the five big forces from your last book for which I want to follow up gladly? And i'd also like to explain how I came by them. I'm a global macro investor, and i've been doing this for about sixty years. And so that means I have to bet on hold. The global macro situation will transpire.
发言人   20:22
And when I was clicking on the floor of the new york stock exchange in one nineteen seventy one, between my college years and my graduate school years, on August fifty, one thousand nine hundred and seventy one, the united states defaulted on it's promise to deliver gold for paper money. President nicks on, got on the television and made that announcement. And I went down on the floor of the new york stock exchange the next day, thinking that this is shocking and terrible and that the market was going to go down a lot.
发言人   20:57
And I couldn't have been more wrong that because this was my first evaluation, and instead the stock market went up a lot. And I found out that the exact same thing happened with president roosevelt in march of nineteen thirty three, getting on the radio and doing the exact same move, and then the stock market going up a lot. And I understood why, because when the value of money goes down a lot, IT raises things.
发言人   21:26
And what I learned from that experience was the study history. So I studied the great depression. And because of that, I was able to anticipate the two thousand eight financial crisis and the two thousand ten to fifteen european and debt crisis.
发言人   21:42
And what I recently did, and watching unusual things happen, the size of the deficit, the internal conflict, the geopolitical changes, I studied the rises and declines of reserve currencies and their empires, the country going back five hundred years. And I found that there are five major forces that transpire in a cycle of into dependencies. And those forces are, first, the debt cycle, the debt money cycle, that has the effect, of course, on the economic where debt rise relative to incomes until they can't anymore.
发言人   22:23
And then there's a debt problem crisis, which we are in. I believe the second great force is the internal political order force, where there is conflict between the left and the right, and a type of civil war due to wealth gaps and values gaps that produces a great conflict, and that's the second force, and where, in an environment that is quite like that, the third force is the a geopolitical world water, in the words, there's a world order away at which the world Operate. Countries Operate with with each other.
发言人   23:01
And then when there's a great power rising against the existing power and the world order, that world order is chAllenge. That always happened. Those existing world order order started nineteen forty five.
发言人   23:14
Then number four, through my research, I saw that acts of nature, drought, floods and pandemics have killed more people than wars and topped more orders than the first three even. And then number five is technology, man's inventiveness. That raises productivity over a period of time.
发言人   23:35
And certainly with AI and other technologies, this is a very, very powerful force. So there are those five forces in any conversation that we're going to have or anyone has about what's going on in the world will deal with those five forces. And it's important, understand their cycle and their into relationships.
发言人   23:57
Yeah before I diving to the first money cycle you mentioned, i'd like to briefly get your sense of how the other forces are heading. We have a marginal improvement of the geopolitical force, I guess, between two big great nations. But at the same time, I think the tech and AI enhance productivity.
发言人   24:17
But IT could also widen in inequality. And also this new a crypto and stable coin craze, especially how fast is proceeding in the us. Will that also widen the income gap? And could that mean bigger internal disorder down the road, which could have implication for international order in the future?
发言人   24:38
I think each one of the things that you're mentioning is a manifestation is a very short term manifestation of the particulars of that cycle. So for example, when you're talking about stable coin or bitcoin, what we are talking about is the breakdown of the existing mind tary system. Other words, is an monetary order.
发言人   25:04
And that monetary order in which there is too much dead, how do you pay back? People are holding dead assets. And those dead assets, they believe, is buying power, stored buying power.
发言人   25:18
And when there's so much dead assets and it's increasing at a very fast rate, then the monetary order is at risk. And i'd like to describe that in a minute, but I want to really answer your question more completely. So when you're looking at that or you're looking at the geopolitical order, when you say that there is an improvement in american U.
发言人   25:42
S. Chinese relations, I think that there may be a blip in a longer term trend that has to do with the great power, conflict and competition that exists in the world order. So in answer to your question, the first four of these influences the debt money, influences the internal conflict, influence the external conflict influence, the great power conflict, and climate changes particularly, are all trending in the toward a worsening set of circumstances.
发言人   26:17
Whether that's arrested and controlled, I can say, but the big forces behind that, and then the fifth force, which is technology, is a two end sort. Another words, a great potential in terms of productivity. Wow, what I can mean in terms of productivity, which could be very, very impactful for all of these things.
发言人   26:41
But IT also could be used for conflict and in various ways for conflict. And also, if it's successful, IT really in terms of the productivity, there are questions, does that produce common prosperity? How does that be shared among all the people? So that IT affects not just those who are creating the uniforms, but can not create broad based productivity.
发言人   27:08
So IT very much comes down to all of these things. There will be great chAllenges ahead, but there is no doubt, I think, greater chAllenges than we've ever experiencing our lives. And the most important thing is how we deal with each other, how we can Operate for the greater good and produce harmony rather than conflict.
发言人   27:30
During these difficult times, we have to work IT out in a way that produces the best for the world, we hope. But because of the nature of all these conflicts and the circumstances, quite often there is the need for the individual country when the individual there is that power of fighting for oneself. And that's the great chAllenge of our time, I think.
发言人   27:54
Yeah, now let's get on to your latest book. You mentioned you factor in twice previous productivity with this AI revolution, but still not enough to solve this U. S.
发言人   28:04
Death situation. I think there is a chinese economist race this point, say, U. S, unlike other country, the dead constraints perhaps lies at the dollars examinant privilege.
发言人   28:16
As long as there is no silly move by U. S. And other country willing to whole U.
发言人   28:20
S, dollar, U. S, could print to finance this step. But if I look at the market, I do see more widespread concern for U.
发言人   28:28
S. That and treasury market this year. How would you respond to that? I think is correct. I am a practical man dealing in the debt markets, pride myself of looking at the supply and the demand of the debt, and i've characterized that in the book.
发言人   28:48
And as I say, it's very close to be to freezing out other spending and there's a supplied demand problem. I think that's a very big issue. That is not only now a concern, but as we add to the dead at the rate that we're adding to the death, that's a real problem.
发言人   29:10
To put IT this in perspective, the U. S. Government spends seven trillion dollars a year and takes in five trillion dollars a year.
发言人   29:19
So it's spending forty percent more than IT is taking in and IT can't cut expenses materially. And we're seeing the debt service squeak out spending right now. Interest rates on the debt are one trillion, so half the budget deficit and then there has to be a debt roll over.
发言人   29:39
There's nine trillion dollars worth of death that has to be rolled over. So when you take the interest of a trillion, nine trillion dollars for debt roll over and you take two trillion dollars of new debt that has to be created to fund the budget deficit, that's twelve trillion dollars of debt that has to be sold. And I when I look at the demand for that dead, that's gonna a problem and that number will rise significantly year by year.
发言人   30:08
So I think it's a in a very risky set of circumstances. And I think this fast rising trend is really concerning, especially coupled with some move that don't raise, attracting this of U. S.
发言人   30:24
Dollar and U. S. Treasury to other countries. Thank you very much, ray. I hope our chinese audience could learn much more from your not just your new book, but also the new raybold and also the investment principal cause, which could be made available as you mention. Well, thank you also for allowing me to communicate, helping me communicate.
发言人   30:50
In this way, you must understand that i've had a forty one year relationship. I sent my son to school there when he was eleven. And this and this wonderful relationship, and at this chAllenging time of the relationship with our two countries, I think it's very important to have this personal relationship continue.
发言人   31:14
And I want to be able, at this stage of my life, to pass along whatever I have that has been helpful. You are helping me do that, and I appreciate that. Thank you very much.
发言人   31:24
Yeah, I didn't mention the article. I roll back in two thousand and sixteen a on you met to china very early. I will include that in the show note.
发言人   31:36
Thank you. Thank you very much. right? Yes, 谢谢。Thank you.