TITLE: Nvidia “Firing Up” Chip Production for China | The China Show 3/18/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg The China Show
DURATION_S: 5439  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-18T08:39:59+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IxpMt7TbI9s
SHA256: b0d9307e597547db1fdbf9cb740ee2e485a42b05b8a1c030f68b28e3bd8cb61e

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] switch. Um anyway, two ten of to 1% to
  [2025] opportunity 2025 to 2027. It is just
  [2022] did during the 2022 Russian invasion of
  [2%] Japan is 2% to the upside just coming
  [10%] to 10%.
  [22%] Look at that 22% drop there. Uh when it
  [7%] proceeds, it's only 7%.
  [4%] are doing this. Cosby is up 4% leading
  [2027] opportunity 2025 to 2027. It is just
  [25%] there could be up to 25% upside on that
  [100%] is 100% committed uh and its supply
  [13%] outlook for this year to 13% for both
  [20%] Music. Uh last week we checked down 20%
  [2020] regime somewhat similar to 2015 2020 the
  [10.1%] futures uh 10.1% and we are getting
  [1.4%] Taiwan coming in line 1.4% and within
  [460%] raised their API pricing by 460%.
  [15%] the stock down some 15%. We got plenty
  [8%] 8%.
  [1.3%] now. Huahong Semi is up some 1.3%. Uh
  [30%] bonuses slash by at least 30%. The
  [6%] affecting roughly 6% of its workforce
  [10.7%] shares are up 10.7% in the Tokyo session
  [5500] recover to 5500 which is about 12 months
  [2015] regime somewhat similar to 2015 2020 the
  [161.8] dollar yen. I think 161.8 which is the
  [2024] high in um 2024 potentially could be
  [2.78] business profit rose 13% to $2.78
  [2.76] that was above the $2.76 billion average
  [1.2] additional $1.2 billion in its own
  [12%] jumped 12% on year also topping
  [1.5] repurchase of up to $1.5 billion in
  [2028] shares through March of 2028.
  [5%] &gt;&gt; Right. An update on Samsung 5% to the
  [17%] by 17% or so um compared to um you know
  [32%] to be 32% yearonear for the next couple

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
9 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and here
in Hong Kong, you're watching the China
show. I'm Ivon Man with David.
open of markets in greater China. Our
top stories today, President Trump calls
out US allies for rejecting his appeal
for help reopening the street of Hormuz,
calling the decision a foolish mistake.
Asian stocks rise and oil holds on to
gains ahead of the flurry of rate
decisions led by the Fed, followed by
the central banks of Japan, the UK, and
the European Union.
rising as Nvidia says it's getting ready
for chip sales to China. a a comeback
that could be worth billions of dollars.
So, you're seeing President Trump
shifting the narrative a little bit
here. First, it was demanding all these
uh allies to help him with reopening the
Street of Hormuz. Now, it's just saying,
"Look, we don't need you. Um, in the
meantime, you're still talking about oil
that's around a hundred bucks and now
it's up to the Fed. We're still talking
about Fed day here today and what
they're going to do about it.
markets are hoping to get clarity uh in
terms of their path forward. The Fed,
not just the Fed, right? You have a
flurry of central banks and how they
will if they look through inflation and
if they see softness in demand and not
inflation, I think is a key point there.
uh because you're right right we are
getting a lot more commentary coming
through from the white house not
necessarily clarity uh on what they mean
but yes the divisions and the tensions
between you know and it's also worth
pointing out right uh prime minister
Takichi is headed to DC and of course
against that backdrop of monetary policy
decisions and this the frictions within
within the US alliance
Chinese I mean it it seems like the the
talks with President Trump have been
delayed I mean he you know he talked
about five or six weeks from now so that
does at least move the calendar date uh
which could be a relief for the Chinese
as well. They've been asking for a bit
of extension. So that at least has been
pushed back that also does weigh on
sentiment in China but certainly there's
going to be a lot I mean especially with
the RBA I think after they hiked rates
yesterday. They're a little bit more
serious about fighting inflation over
there but it does might have
implications for the rest whether Iran
does force the hand of a lot of the
essential banks now.
tomorrow it's something that they need
to contend with uh anyway and I think
it's also playing out as far as Chinese
markets go right. So I think one of the
things we've been tracking is really the
steepening of the yield curve there. Uh
which also goes into why maybe some of
the consumer names have been rallying.
The data has been encouraging. So
Chinese tech and consumer want to watch
separately today as risk rally uh really
gets going I guess in some ways uh when
you look at oil prices and oil prices
are down. You have the dollar coming
back a little bit as well. So those two
things are actually creating u a decent
foundation upon which risk assets are
jumping. So just in terms of FedE in
terms of rate central bank decisions you
have the Fed uh you have the ECB uh
coming through but first on deck have a
look at currencies is the Bank of Canada
later tonight Asia time then we go into
early morning of Thursday that gets into
the Fed Brazil at some point the BOJ a
few hours after that you have uh the
Bank of England and of course the ECB so
a flurry of central bank decisions it's
also worth pointing out uh that most are
probably not going to do anything. But
it's really what they say and how they
say it as my ex would like to tell me
said all the time is really what matters
sometimes. Anyway, it's a choice of
words as they say. Um the trends on your
screens uh we're looking at a rally
across uh Asian government bonds
tracking what we had on Wall Street
overnight. So yields are on the way
down. Uh very quickly uh equity markets
are doing this. Cosby is up 4% leading
the gains here across these markets. S&amp;P
futures uh 10.1% and we are getting
Taiwan coming in line 1.4% and within
China of course speaking of tech the big
one is coming out with earnings today 10
cent more on that in a moment. Uh but
yes we are looking at some modest upside
uh we're sideways across most Chinese
assets as we speak.
here has lashed out at allies who
rejected his appeals for military
assistance in the war with Iran. He
singled out Japan, Australia, South
Korea in a post on True Social, even
while saying the US doesn't need
anyone's help. Trump also stepping up
his criticism of NATO, too.
foolish mistake. And I I've long said
that, you know, I wonder whether or not
NATO would ever be there for us. So,
this is a this was a great test because
we don't need them, but they should have
been there. The other thing is u and I
think you know very important uh we
didn't have to be there for Ukraine.
questions about what comes next here.
You know really kind of ditching his
efforts to recruit a lot of the partners
uh in this war and really unblocking the
straight of horror moves. For more
details, let's bring in our team, our
politics editor, Laura Davidson, and our
chief major correspondent, Stephen
Engel, who's tracking, of course, a US
and China trade talks. Laura, I'll start
with you. So, you know, at first was
like, you know, almost like you must
help us out uh to the the message to
allies. Now, it says we don't need you.
What comes next now, Laura?
know, feeling uh very irritable and and
and frankly kind of hurt over this. uh
you know he didn't get the response he
wanted from allies and so uh instead has
just sort of reversed his position uh
here uh you know he he has not been able
to to drum up support uh from NATO
allies from Asian allies from really
anywhere uh around the globe uh for this
war really only the only uh um uh
partner who's come forward and said that
they'll send sort of a modicum of
support has been uh Ukraine uh notably
uh you know some of the drone warfare
that that Zilinsky has been able to use
in the in the war against Russia there.
Uh but this is uh you know puts Trump in
a really tough spot. Uh he's also put
some some deadlines on this war. He uh
that Kevin Hasset, the White House
economic director, says that this war
will last be four to six weeks more and
after that it will start to hit US
consumers. Trump has also put that five
to six week deadline on a Trump G summit
getting rescheduled. This is an
important uh moment here because if you
know the war is not resolved, if things
are still in a bad place come early May,
this puts a lot of pressure on Trump
both globally as well as domestically to
come with to sort of announce and and
and put forward some sort of solution on
what the path forward is.
your what you just said there, if we use
that time frame on the end of the war as
perhaps the
uh the benchmark for when that trip to
Beijing might be able to take place and
Steve, I'll bring you in on this point
here. Uh what more do we know beyond the
around five or six weeks and it pertains
to the timeline there for the for the
summit? Yeah, that's the only guideline
we have right now is five to six weeks.
And if Kevin Hassid is saying four to
six weeks for the end of the war in
Iran, so you can basically uh peg that
the trip to China could possibly happen
whenever the the Trump administration
determines uh that hostilities have
subsided in Thran. Uh keep in mind China
the back channel communications
essentially and from sources telling
Bloomberg uh that Beijing doesn't want
to have anything to do necessarily with
uh or even giving any kind of modum of
support by welcoming Donald Trump to
Beijing at this time to give the
impression that possibly Beijing is
supporting whatever the Trump
administration is doing whether it's an
excursion into Iran or outright war they
……（中部抽样）……
they don't want necessarily according to
away from that connection, essentially
But again, I would say Beijing has been
the key word here. Does this potentially
sort of new framework uh to not
proverbial can further down the road.
certainty though over this visit. Uh the
overshadowed by uh the war um and and
room and things could potentially go off
talked about that update when it comes
plays, still going to be the metals
out performance relative to Alibaba, of
down the open of trade in Shanghai,
across the Cosby index. You have Samsung
just got the fix of the day bottom of
center in just a few hours. Expected to
far uh Tencent has been quite prudent.
apps. It's seen as slower in acquiring
market because of the existing ecosystem
Might the concerns over uh AI push not
sheer computing power required is going
overnight is firing up production of its
licenses for customers in China and
does not take into account any revenues
is is the solidity of supply chains.
is 100% committed uh and its supply
are rising substantially right now in
revenues really despite that stronger
out for, uh you know, you're still
is a bit of a dividend that they've
given the focus with Nvidia ramping up
8%.
interesting there. and a view from IFC
Korea, and Taiwan. So that's just
earnings on that front. And as we countd
to that big Fed decision as well. And
earnings growth forecast for China ASA
these big large cap tech or or just
albeit we're not seeing, you know,
here whether they can catch up in this
on the stronger side. We're 688 levels
ZTO, Tencent Music, and Kingd have
actually is continue to weigh on the
anyway, okay,
to see inflation and not a softening of
on how we should be looking at the Feds.
Japan but for for slightly different
traders will be looking for them how
there was a massive flattening of
cuts for this year, pretty much gone
clearly the risks are skewed towards
record of performing well around
there's cannibalization going on
to those kind of companies. a bit of a
Cosby absolutely going through the roof
you're going to stay losing.
saying they already are firing up
supposed to be actually one of the
Jen, equity portfolio manager at China
us quite diversified not rely only on
AI theme in China?
their exposure especially the thematic
track. Uh suffice to say, you guys are
robotic in humanoid robotics actually
agentic AI and then you have some of
grab such kind of a good opportunities
theme right now. It already changed
the moderate inflation and will address
huge potential in China for us to
positive level as early as March as this
portfolio manager at China AMC Hong
listing pipeline here in Hong Kong.
they're not you know banning all red
about 40 billion um and and I I think
obviously a the incentive there to
brokers. So uh regulatory scrutiny
overall um if they have capacity then
bloomer.com/newsletters.
lifestyles of elite bankers. Bentley
investors have not forgotten the memory
fresh risks to the economy from the Iran
and just really adds to how the whole
moment for you once we get more
downgrades through coming through out of
do with the fact that oil isn't rallying
Pacific. DOJ this time tomorrow. Uh
through that sort of inflation impact.
oil prices here.
for the dollar I think we have a chart
FX and race strategist at LGT. She joins
rational. Um at first you get some
you know the military actions yet to
and it pressures on the NATO alleys as
shortterm whether it could squeeze
from a price shock to an output shock
helium exactly um and once the market
matters. It matters very much because if
inflation. If we look at the world today
high.
right? And it's no longer in a good
guidance and at 2% is is a neutral rate
amount of energy rationing that we have
is is riskreward wise it's good to
we draw between interventions and the
level but as of right now there's some
foolish mistake, and I I've long said
context. However, once the situation
should do that.
saying that, "Yeah, we asked for your
for Takichi?
limits in its constitution about
a really difficult situation. She's the
to get your thoughts on whether and how,
how it fights the war and how it runs
um security adviser who left because of
in this and that the the pro Iran war
difficult position. They need to manage
disappointing. It's not performing as a
market will feels that one of
Um to me I think since March what we
banks is different for the BOJ. They are
risk is for dollar yen upside still.
hike aggressively subsequently.
policy at least from an FX perspective.
dividend outflow and previously you have
right when DXY is broadbased stronger
move or do you believe that move? I I
to a lot of guests here who's going to
insurers says it will buy back an
analyst estimate. Fourth quarter revenue
thick of things. Uh we're headed into
though despite the fact that oil prices
the Japanese shipper right that takes us
your screens. Uh we're about an hour
intelligence take here. You know they
should be in line to marginally ahead.
Aentic AI and Open Glory is going to be
but again, I think everything is going
given the strength of demand for AI and
morning saying that China has also
their hands on H200 chips even though
market here in Hong Kong then I think
you don't know is what President Trump
fluidity of the situation has really
um yes um so this year uh we have seen a
and also the US software um stock
China and also um the uh the divergence
sort of lifted um the sentiment of these
slightly higher. Um so um there is that
uh business models but as Shirley
talking about AI and all the themes
existing loan to $7 billion and that
buildup in um Asia has been happening
risks are really kind of starting to
you look at the numbers in terms of
why these deals are such good deals to
depends on the last point. Uh fantastic.
editor, is with us right now to talk us
Iran war going on and spreads were so
the public credit a lot quicker than you
which is about 120 globally but
talking $und00 billion and that is a
about a $2 trillion market. So if you
the managers and the banks to be honest.
there. This is Bloomberg.
and podash while managing a slowdown in
……（接近结尾）……
Uh we have received purchase orders um
from many customers and we're in the
process of uh restarting our
manufacturing.
that $1 trillion figure sales
opportunity 2025 to 2027. It is just
Blackwell and Reuben based systems. It
does not take into account any revenues
or revenue opportunities from CPU or
even Grock. Although Jenzong did say
that if you factored Grock into it,
there could be up to 25% upside on that
$1 trillion figure. Beyond that, it was
very much a kind of state of the world.
It always is at GTC where Jensen holds
court with the press and goes through a
wide range of issues. But probably uh
the the biggest thing beyond sort of
talking about how robust demand is is
the solidity of supply chains. There's
going to need to be trillions of dollars
worth of capacity put in place to meet
the supply uh that's required for
current demand. Um Jensen Wong also
addressed what's happening both in the
Middle East and in Iran. Um Nvidia has
lots of employees in in Israel and he
said that the company is committed to
Israel. He's very worried about his
employees there. And as it relates to
Taiwan and the future of Taiwan, Nvidia
is 100% committed and its supply chain
has heavy concentration there. That is
not going to change. Ed LLO for
Bloomberg News in San Jose, California.
in that conference from Nvidia,
particularly when it came to that CNBC
interview with Jensen Hong and asking
him about Open Claw and what he thought,
you know, the potential of this sort of
technology is. and he basically said
it's definitely the next chat GBT.
That's why you are seeing some of these
sort of open claw linked sort of names
in China in particular here that are
yeah surging once again Dave.
of the commentary that's come through
there. I mean clearly the markets are
running and why not right given how
bullish those comments actually sounded
uh coming through. Vital knowledge says
Nvidia was as bullish as ever about the
demand backdrop for that. extremely
bullish on the implications of Open
Claw, comparing it to your point there,
right? Um, also comparing it to Windows
or Mac as it pertains to uh Yeah. Yep.
In case you missed that, Jensen Hang
says OpenClaw is definitely the next
Chat TPT in that interview of course
with CNBC.
interesting, right? And you're seeing
that I think China is the one that
really has been embracing uh open claw
probably more bigger than most places in
the world right now. That's why you are
seeing maybe these massive moves in Jupu
and Miniax uh there Ucloud tech also on
shore. Uh let's move on take a look at
some of the movers out there. We're
watching oil stocks in particular just
given the fact I think it's a it's a
fourth straight day we've seen oil
prices above $100. Uh so we're slightly
off some of the initial highs of the
session but still uh there is still a
bit of a mixed picture across some of
these Asia oil plays here. Impex for
example though is still up some 4%. Uh
we're watching aluminum as well. Well, I
mean given the Iran situation, aluminum
has certainly been quite volatile as
well, but we're starting to see some of
these aluminum stocks in China fall as
we start to see inventory rising on weak
demand. So, uh they are mostly lower
here this morning. Tencent and Tensent
Music, the big one to watch.
really to what the company had said and
of course Tencent is the one that comes
out with earnings uh later today. Um a
couple of downgrades still coming
through on Tencent Music specifically.
uh 22% and we will of course further the
conversation on Tencent tomorrow on the
shows with Barklays of course with Jong
Sha. Uh he covers of course the Chinese
tech space. He's joining us tomorrow.
Fantastic insights there usually when we
get here from Jong Sha. And yes, Tencent
is out with earnings later today and of
course into the session tomorrow.
pretty important central bank decisions
coming up in the next 36 hours or so.
Right. So we talked about Bank of Canada
is the next one to watch there. Thursday
is the Fed. Then you got BOJ on Thursday
as well as the ECB. That's it for us
here on the China show. Insight with
Helena Ahmed is next.