TITLE: Bloomberg Surveillance 3/10/2026
CHANNEL: Bloomberg Surveillance Full Shows
DURATION_S: 8626  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-10T15:06:52+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CIKiSW0dr_A
SHA256: 77f654e33d4c0b7b9b2dfffba99aee2c9037ba550abcd79d4f349c9ede209d52

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [1%] S&amp;P positive by about 2/10 of 1%. Coming
  [6%] fundamental standpoint, that's about 6%
  [7%] down by 7% this morning at $92 a barrel.
  [8%] more than 8% on Brent to $90 and about
  [2022] comparisons to 2022 and this moment
  [10%] decline by 10% so purely on President
  [900000] to process about 900,000 barrels a day
  [119.50] 119.50 at the high, 83.66
  [2%] by nearly 2% at this point. Of course,
  [6.7] cuts are totaling about 6.7 million
  [2019] August 2019 when the president of the
  [2.9%] back this morning higher by 2.9%.
  [20%] their spending's up about 20% plus, and
  [30%] numbers from this company up 30% in the
  [92.50] by about 6% this morning, 92.50 on Brent
  [1.4] we have about 1.4 billion barrels
  [2020] bonds by Japanese happened in 2020 to
  [91.90] this morning 91.90. Yeah, a record move
  [2000] very close to LFLO from the 2000s for
  [9120] close to 8% 9120, WTI 8790.
  [9140] 9140 as we count you down to the open in
  [2.8%] 2.8% percent. It has been years of
  [0.5] by about 0.5. Even with this move in the
  [80%] recycling capital. 75-80% of the
  [0.3] Nasdaq up by 0.3 on the Russell up by
  [91.50] by 7% on Brent, 91.50 on WTI, we're down
  [88.30] about 6 to 7% at 88.30. Up next on the
  [83.66] 119.50 at the high, 83.66
  [30000] $30,000 per contract,
  [2025] we're talking about June 2025 with the
  [1991] 12-day war. We're talking about 1991
  [91.84] respectively. Brent crude at 91.84 WTI
  [88.89] at 88.89. In the equity market future
  [35%] that turning to 35% from 25% just a day
  [25%] that turning to 35% from 25% just a day
  [1.5%] rates to 1.5%. And of course there's the
  [60%] &gt;&gt; It's what happens when you have 60% of
  [2023] 2023 when the global duration was
  [86000] report the private sector lost 86,000
  [8790] close to 8% 9120, WTI 8790.

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
There is spectacular amounts of
volatility.
the sidelines for a moment here.
off-ramp could be.
a great year.
great buying opportunities.
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning
for our audience right now. Coming into
Tuesday following crude volatility.
This was just an excursion into
something
that had to be done. During this brief
disruption, we're way ahead of schedule
and it's going to be ended soon.
And if it starts up again, they'll be
they'll be hit even harder. The
president's verbal intervention slamming
the brakes on a major oil rally even as
key producers across the Middle East are
continuing to cut output and Iran's
military is showing little sign of
looking for an off-ramp. We begin this
hour following a wild swing in crude
from almost 120 at the highs before
plunging into the '80s at the lows. One
line from the president whipsawing
investors, I think the war is very
complete, pretty much. The verbal
intervention capping energy markets. The
reality on the ground curbing some of
the enthusiasm. Across Saudi Arabia,
UAE, Kuwait, and Iraq, oil production
cuts are totaling about 6.7 million
barrels per day. The squeeze on supply
continues.
market? As you mentioned on the
fundamental standpoint, that's about 6%
of the overall market supply in the
world. That is a significant hit. At the
same time, people can look past that if
they can understand some sort of forward
trajectory. Well, good luck with that
when it can be dictated by a single
comment.
Saudi Aramco. This quote right here.
I've spoken to Amin in the past, pretty
conservative guy. Not the kind of guy
that makes things sound more dramatic
than they actually are. This one by far
is the biggest crisis the region's oil
and gas industry has ever faced.
be catastrophic consequences for the
world to oil market the longer the
disruption goes on. So, once again, this
is about the timeline, not necessarily
just the production output cuts right
now, which goes to the statements that
are whipsawing markets in record form.
At what point can you get a sense of an
off-ramp until there is real policy
behind it?
piece in the last 24 hours. Direct
verbal intervention from the president,
we saw the G7 finance ministers open to
releasing reserves. A report from
Reuters that the White House is
considering a range of offsets as well,
and a vague throwaway line about
sanction relief as well. But, what have
we actually done? The answer to that is
not a lot. Which is the reason why I
think there is some skepticism. And
again, it goes back to how much
conviction can any trader have when you
have a $36 swing in Brent crude in one
day, the second biggest on record. You
start looking at those types of swings,
you start looking at the fact that
Millennium, Breliant, and Point72 have
all suffered massive losses. You think
about momentum bets that have been
stopped out. At this point, this is a
difficult market to get conviction in,
and that's the reason why even if there
are statements that sound good, you are
not going to get the stability that so
many investors are looking for. They're
looking for stability in the equity
market. Equity futures right now in the
S&amp;P positive by about 2/10 of 1%. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Nate
Thurst of Manulife with markets
whipsawed by geopolitics. Stephen Cook
of the Council on Foreign Relations is
the president's take on an early end to
the war, and Stephen Schork of the
Schork Group following crude's biggest
intraday swing on record. We begin this
hour with our top story. President Trump
saying the Iran war's objectives are
nearly complete, and the war could be
resolved very soon. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now from Washington for
more. Tyler, good morning.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, President
Trump is suggesting an early end to the
war, but cautioned that it's not over
yet. The president maintains that the US
is ahead of schedule in achieving its
military objectives, but went on to say
he doesn't think that the conflict will
resolve this week. He says the US
military campaign will not stop until he
is satisfied that Iran will not be able
to obtain a nuclear weapon saying in
part quote, "The US has won in many
ways, but it hasn't won enough." Now,
the president did also threaten to
expand the list of military targets to
electricity infrastructure if
disruptions through the Strait of Hormuz
continue. He reiterated the US Navy
stands prepared to escort tankers
through the critical waterway, which
remains effectively shut with no
finalized plans for nations to safeguard
ships. And new this morning, Bloomberg
News now reporting that it appears
electronic warfare is jamming signals in
the strait as oil remains top of mind.
As you mentioned, the president
mentioned yesterday that we could see
some oil-related sanction waivers,
though he didn't provide many details
beyond saying that he discussed the
possibility in a phone call yesterday
with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
John, people familiar with the matter
tell us here at Bloomberg News that the
administration has been mulling several
potential options to help out with
prices in recent days, including a
potential federal gas tax holiday or
even dipping in to emergency reserves. I
will point out we got a statement
yesterday after President Trump's
comments from the IRGC maintaining that
it will continue to block oil exports
until the US stops attacking Iran. Tana
Kakef with the latest. Tana, thank you.
There's a story I often tell about
August 2019 when the president of the
United States, you know I'm going, don't
you? When the president pretended he had
a call with the Chinese.
And it was always about the signal and
not about the substance because for a
lot of people that meant the president
was looking for an off-ramp. It wasn't
about whether the call had happened or
not. The Chinese never verified the
call. And I wonder how similar things
are this time around. The difference
between the signal and the substance.
The signal is for many people in this
market right now, they believe the
president is looking for some kind of
off-ramp to confront this massive move
in the energy market. The problem with
this, unlike the tariffs where the
president was in almost total control,
this isn't just about the US. It's also
about Israel, and it's also about Iran.
And to sit here and say things going to
end soon
takes more than one person to say things
going to end soon. At the same time, I
think people are just trying to get into
the mind of President Trump and hope
that that's enough, but you're
absolutely right, it's not. Let's get to
the view on Wall Street this morning.
Nate Thorth of Manulife writing we could
see economic growth diminish if policy
uncertainty increases. Corporate profit
margins get crimped due to higher energy
input costs, and higher gas prices will
act as a consumer tax. Nate joins us now
for more. Nate, good morning. Thanks for
having me. What is the price for all
this volatility?
I mean, I think the reality is we have a
bigger pogo stick going on, right? We
have a lot of up and down, and we don't
have a lot of forward traction, and the
uncertainty is very, very high. I think
the price is that we live in a world
where volatility continues to be the
theme, at least in the near future. This
to your point earlier, the signal is
there as in everyone wants this to
conclude quickly, and the duration of it
to be limited, but the reality is the
on-the-ground activity and the idea that
multiple players are involved could lead
this to lead a last a lot longer than
many people think. You've had the
……（中部抽样）……
comparisons to 2022 and this moment
exactly that way?
per year for most major economies.
a point where we have energy prices get
like gold, which maybe is not working as
5K a good entry point to buy gold? I
than what we've seen over the last 20
what, 2 months ago in Davos,
a short-term excursion. Are you thinking
market. It's amazing that the market can
tremendous success right now as we leave
they should not complain if the Iranian
oil is going to pass through the strait
couldn't agree more. Joumana Bouacha
Well, I think that the president was
question about the SPR in the US and why
now, but we're going to have more
that Iran presents to both the United
leaders are outraged at what the
the now late Ayatollah, is really a
something completely different, which
about 6 to 7% at 88.30. Up next on the
behavior, and yet it's a massive market
pretty brutal, especially over the last
by nearly 2% at this point. Of course,
is, can it continue apace given that
million barrels a day amounting to 6% of
clearly it's a political issue, and
some of the oil supplies and natural gas
your sense, your read? How much
if we do not get that strait flowing
looking at the Dubai market, which is a
trade in this kind of market?
soon." But then again, we still have
positions out there is akin to a death
premium is now that risk premium is now
resolution we're hoping to see, i.e., uh
Well, the first one, uh restricting
any of these gimmicks
it makes for a great sound, uh, bite,
chain as we've seen time and time again,
at 88.89. In the equity market future
don't see treasuries really breaking out
Yeah, sure. So, in the reaction to the
effects, I think it does as add another
know the BOJ is in a very different game
Yeah, so actually, so you know, you're
domestic increasing the presence. I
2023 when the global duration was
consumption in Japan. So, it could
wants to take things. A little bit more
Greenhaus of Solas, Mark Short, the
market, deep breath. The last 24 hours
about 19 to 20 million barrels per day,
yesterday.
Alternative Asset Management writing,
getting worse, but it's certainly not
oil price spike is never a good thing,
that represent the investor class if you
perfectly fair political conversation to
get comfortable with the idea that oil
should be flat or negative on the idea
president.
what you just said about the the
especially paired with nonfarm payrolls?
or two and we get ships going back
positive outcome and you see price
the the fuel costs for both of those
get a headline on Sunday that said
but I haven't seen it get worse. And so
some evil.
exactly
about Israel's goals cuz Israel's also
prices pulling back as President Trump
saying that the country is quote
it yesterday. John, people familiar with
this war isn't over until we say it's
so, I think you'll continue to see him
Middle East for generations to come, I
we did this. I think that's what he can
intercept drones at the same time we're
president deserves credit for having
offline. And so it it seems to me
variables and changing on a dime, which
down by seven. 88 on WTI, 91 on Brent.
Federal Reserve and other central banks
John, looking at some of the stocks that
up at least half a percent in the case
this is a broader issue, not just a
tankers through the Strait of Hormuz. As
against some of the nationalistic
relieving sanctions on the Russian
balance sheet and incomes. How much can
like. And
they're spending more
Well, you know, in the very latest data,
widest in our data for wages that
if it continues to cool. So, you know,
sugar high from these tax refunds, that
a new wave of missile strikes on
better not play that game. Um, next,
of debt across a lot of maturities and a
shaping up as follows right now. On the
only talking about one thing, the energy
as the president looks to calm oil
we're seeing, or the unwinding of some
know, if a sustained move to 120 and
about credit shocks in the private
and in private credit where you start to
feature of this year or is this just a
plus or minus a couple basis points.
shocks that we've had to confront over
just moments ago crossing the Bloomberg
Eventually, that volatility will create
be a briefing from the Pentagon. We'll
in this discussion.
6 to 7% so far this morning, 92.40.
getting done. We're on the tape in both
spreads gapped out to 168 basis points
fascinating if you talk to market
to fund all of that, lapping up that
rest of the year.
The market is making bets about things
with elevated stock prices and healthy
pause in activity and things really then
talking about for the last week. The
And with the higher oil price, that
to have you with us this morning. Thank
today that we will see more intense
happening on the ground in the Middle
in the dark and how difficult it is to
developing in the Middle East and
spreads materially widen out and people
CrowdStrike to overweight saying the
most buffer cuz they remember they own
comes back into style. 2022 was good to
about the airline industry, Tom, we're
under three now with the easing we've
investors are under-owned overall. If
now, is that anxiety around the labor
the upper part of the K. One of the
there was, you know, consumer discomfort
Um so so yeah, so it it varies carrier
Iran. Just compare that reality check to
to process some 900,000 barrels of oil
heard a few times and Lisa said it
closely, Robert Schiffman of Bloomberg
by 4.6% after that. TD Cowen saying that
hours. An end to the war.
still high compared to where we were
goes that way. Who gets hurt? Now this
solar energy, wind energy, but the
that, but the sense is that they are way
the repricing we saw off the back of the
all morning. We talked to Kathy Jones
through to household balance sheets as
there momentum in the consumer,
necessarily the kind of tailwind from
kind of below average. Um, you know,
about the the kind of risks on the
going to be the Fed chair?
be great for the administration to hear
not relent until the enemy is totally
already 6% of the output taken off. The
and another round of jobless claims on
and here we are again. Each one of these
that are out there. The first one is
pretty big losses being reported at
……（接近结尾）……
yields are moving higher and equity
prices are going down. Um the risk is is
when does this inflation shock translate
into a growth scare and when does it
start to really impact growth? That's
when the cyclical broadening trade will
start to get challenged because cyclical
broadening really means small caps and
mid caps relative to large caps. That's
usually what does well. That's what was
working prior to this event. So does do
do we get back into that right now? And
that's what we have to ask.
challenged by the fact that we've reset
oil prices higher and potentially put
the Fed on hold for a longer period of
time?
think that is when we look at oil
prices, I don't think they're going back
down to where they were. I think that
they're going to settle at a higher
level than where they were. So if you're
looking at Brent, you know, we're not
looking at $70 Brent going forward.
We're probably looking at best case
scenario somewhere around like 80, I
think for this year.
Um so I don't think that the shock just
goes away, right? I think that we've
we're taking the growth hit. We are
going to get that. We are taking
probably higher inflation right now. The
market's repricing for this. So the
question is is where is the market
repricing and where is that overshooting
and does it actually give us an
opportunity to enter? And and we think
that there are some selective
opportunities where we can get involved.
And I I don't think that we tip
ourselves into a recession necessarily.
Now clearly anything can happen and
we'll react to it, but for right now we
think that this is still um
volatility in markets that we can take
advantage of. What are the openings
right now? You call them dislocations.
We're single digits away from all-time
highs on the S&amp;P, but where are the
openings?
debate, right? You know, as we're
sitting here saying, well, you know, we
do want to buy something relatively
cheap, but nothing's really cheapened a
whole lot. But you know what, John,
that's actually a relatively strong sign
for the markets. That the markets aren't
willing to really take this out. Now
some people will say, oh, the markets
are completely missing this. I I don't
believe the markets are that dumb. I
think the markets are pretty smart. I
think it really depends where you are.
So, the cyclical broadening theme I
still think is a very strong theme. I
think a lot of the technology sector has
already come in relatively weak and and
relatively well discounted going into
this. So, it's not like we came in to
this event where everybody was way over
bought, way over long at the moment. So,
I I think we have to be a little bit
less emotional and we have to think
through the valuations and and and where
the opportunities are. And where And And
to your point, we're not seeing
screaming buys at this point. So, we're
being slow, but we are starting to add.
Jim, it's good to see you. Jim Caron of
Morgan Stanley Investment Management
still constructive on this market and
seeing the ability to add as we get
these dips. And they are small dips in
the grand scheme of things. They are
small dips, but he's not alone. A lot of
people saying this is a good
opportunity, especially as it does seem
like people are looking for off-ramps.
Equities right now on the S&amp;P negative
by about a tenth of 1%. Going into the
up and down. The president seemingly
sending the signal that maybe he's
looking for an off-ramp and capping the
advance on crude. Crude this morning
down by 7% 9230, 8940 on WTI. We've
talked continuously this morning about
the hope that we can take that off-ramp,
establish one, and go down it. And the
reality on the ground and the facts on
the ground are still deeply deeply
concerning.
at a UAE or near an UAE refinery. Very
much concerning. We'll continue to
monitor this and figure out whether
people come to more of an off-ramp.
RBC, Lisa Shalett of Morgan Stanley,
Jeff Currie of Carlyle, and the former
St. Louis Fed president Jim Bullard.
From New York City this morning. Good
morning. Stay safe. We'll see you
tomorrow. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.