TITLE: Will High Oil Prices Kill Demand? Why JPMorgan Says Book Your Travel Now | WSJ’s Take On the Week
CHANNEL: WSJ Take On the Week
DURATION_S: 1790  DENSITY: brief  REQ summary=2 core=3
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-22T10:01:19+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xN0apS5zDjM
SHA256: 21d0cdf903b23369559820e503cf9f3d1458a025b6cfe31873e04619d621fc2a

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [20%] high as 20% plus, you know, 10%
  [2022] similarly what we did in 2022, you have
  [2026] 2026 show that every 1 million barrel
  [2023] was made in 2023, in early 2023, that we
  [2025] over 2025 to 2030.
  [5000] know, 5,000, from 4,000, there was a
  [1970] was a 1970s term at a time when
  [10%] high as 20% plus, you know, 10%
  [2020] know lucky us that we have example 2020
  [50%] India and China, that's 50% of the
  [18%] global LNG market is only 18% of the
  [6%] &gt;&gt; I mean, it's low. It's like 6% chance of
  [3%] a hike and 3% of a cut or something.
  [1980] times of the 1970s, 1980s, that got as
  [7%] &gt;&gt; Right now, we're in the sort of 6 to 7%
  [16%] worldwide could grow 12 to 16% annually
  [2030] over 2025 to 2030.
  [60%] so 60% of oil demand is moving people
  [2021] prices in 2021 and in 2022. Do you
  [100%] produce at 100%.
  [4000] know, 5,000, from 4,000, there was a
  [1700] at $1,700 then. And so, our view was
  [2028] 2028.
  [6300] target right now is 6,300. We're trading

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
My advice to everybody, there guys,
whoever is planning summer vacations,
you have to buy your tickets today.
Please do not wait until May because the
prices are already much, much higher.
So, the jet fuel prices have doubled
since the start of the war.
this past week and the result was, as
expected, nothing.
Federal Reserve did nothing. It stayed
on hold. It did not cut rates. Following
the meeting was sort of the news and
that was that the market's expectations
of cuts this year ratcheted back even
further.
this year, basically.
tool, which uses futures pricing, is now
actually, uh, for for the near future,
uh, putting a slightly higher likelihood
on a hike rather than a cut.
a hike and 3% of a cut or something.
the beginning of this year.
market size a couple of months ago.
chair coming in, Kevin Warsh, who is
expected by President Trump to cut
rates. So, that will be an interesting
dynamic to see. But one word that reared
its ugly head at the, uh, meeting this
past week was stagflation. People may
remember that that word means this kind
of toxic combination of high inflation
and low growth.
say about it at the Fed press
conference.
always have to point out that that that
was a 1970s term at a time when
unemployment was in double figures and
inflation was really high and the misery
index was super high. Add them together,
you get the misery index, and that's not
the case right now. We actually have
unemployment really close to longer-run
normal
and we have inflation that's, you know,
one percentage point above that. So,
calling that stagflation, it's not, you
know, I I would reserve the term
stagflation for
you know, a much more serious set of
circumstances. That is not the situation
we're in.
uh Chair Powell refers to the misery
index, which as as he says is adding
together the unemployment rate and the
inflation rate. During the terrible
times of the 1970s, 1980s, that got as
high as 20% plus, you know, 10%
unemployment and 10%
what we're experiencing right now.
range, right? We have an unemployment
rate in the fours, we have inflation in
the twos. Neither are necessarily where
we want them to be, but uh we're not in
that territory yet. But that is the fear
that is put on the table when we have an
oil supply shock and other fast-rising
energy prices that those things would
not only drive inflation, but also slow
down growth. Um however, Powell did say
some pretty interesting things about how
they're thinking about the oil shock. Uh
number one, he said that it's not really
what they're they're obviously looking
at it, but it's not necessarily the
reason that they are not uh
cutting rates right now. They're sort of
taking a wait-and-see attitude towards
it. Um
and he
talked about the impact of
oil prices not themselves on what prices
are going to be, but on consumers'
expectations of inflation. And he made
note of the fact that that's really
where the Fed is focused is on whether
or not people's inflation expectations
remain anchored or unanchored, meaning
they think that prices are going to keep
rising far into the future, and that's
that's the the bad thing that the Fed
really wants to uh avoid. And so, that's
why I think that a critical piece of
data this upcoming week will be the
Michigan consumer uh survey. Uh and
that's because part of that is an
inflation expectations index.
then stalled in the most recent reading.
And all of that really doesn't take into
account what's going on now
with prices. I mean, it some of it
reflected a little bit of the of the
start of the rise of gas prices, but if
that number really starts to go up,
that is the reason right there why
people might be starting to say, "Wow,
prices are going up." Because if I every
time I go to fill up my car, I see these
prices have ticked up a little bit more,
it's immediately going to be hitting my
wallet and be making me think, "Oh,
inflation is worse."
psychology problem that the Fed has to
think about. I mean, gas prices, right?
A giant sign that hangs everywhere you
drive that tells you whether prices are
rising or falling. And so,
we know how sensitive Americans are to
that.
to put downward pressure on oil prices
was to waive the Jones Act. This act
basically requires the ships that
transport goods between US ports to be
American-built, flagged, and crewed. So,
that means all American-made, basically,
and staffed. And waiving that act means
basically that foreign ships will be
allowed to transport cargoes of products
like jet fuel and fertilizer, which we
talked about on our last episode as
having been a little bit backed up by
what's happening in the Strait of
Hormuz.
isn't it? I mean, the Jones Act is
pretty
before. It has happened before.
Um, but the question is how much will it
make a difference? Um, like, maybe it
will make a difference at the margins,
but we're talking about 20% of global
oil that's not making its way, you know,
around the world. And um, that this
might just be a drop in the bucket, no
pun intended.
the We talked about this on on previous
shows, the release of of reserves from
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in the
US and then kind of global actions like
that. Those also had temporary effects
at best on on global oil prices. And as
we're talking now, Brent is back, you
know, has has traded above 110 once
again. So, it doesn't seem like that was
the magic
pill to to fix this problem.
there is a big conference coming up this
week
called CERAWeek. It is the one of the
biggest conferences of the year for the
energy industry and there will be
leaders from across the industry there.
Some expected guests are US Energy
Secretary Chris Wright.
what he's got to say.
the CEO of Aramco, will also be there.
That's of course Saudi Arabia's big oil
producing company.
for the conversation at CERAWeek to be
around energy and the world's energy
needs. Here's one stat I think that that
will come up a lot. S&amp;P Global Energy
estimates that data center power demand
worldwide could grow 12 to 16% annually
over 2025 to 2030.
That's obviously an enormous need and
that power's got to come from somewhere.
a question for the week. Gold versus
oil. These are two commodities that
we've talked about a lot on this show,
both of which are surging right now for
different reasons. And we're wondering
which one are you turning to right now
as a hedge against inflation? Which one
do you prefer? If you could write to us
and let us know your thoughts, you might
be able to win a
piece of WSJ swag such as this mug for
those of you who are watching on
video here. You can write to us at
takeontheweek@wsj.com
for a chance to be featured and win some
merch, a mug, a pen,
a notepad.
Um this offer is open to US residents 18
and older and our editorial team will
select the featured entries and we may
read your entry on the air.
are betting on the price of oil, uh
I think some guidance is in order uh
from some people who've been looking at
that market for a long time.
to be listening to the rest of this
podcast.
the first time, I don't I don't even
know if that's a thing. Um but you need
some guidance. How high could the price
of oil possibly go? Or alternatively,
could it get back to what it was before
all of this? For help on that question,
we turned to Natasha Kaniva. She is the
head of global commodities research at
JP Morgan Chase and she actually had
some pretty interesting things to say
about where the price of oil could go
and where it's very unlikely to go. I
think what she says is actually pretty
surprising. We'll have her on after the
break.
through which 1/5 of global oil passes,
is effectively closed right now, but the
US has pledged to defend it. You were
……（中部抽样）……
quoted in a WSJ story that really caught
quote. You said, "In the whole written
closed, ever. To me, it was not just the
unthinkable scenario."
we wanted to have you on this podcast
So today, oil is sitting at over $100 as
How high could it go?
20% of the global supply, there is
those type of production losses. The
through a similar uh destruction on the
demand global demand has to disappear to
administration is going down the list,
similarly what we did in 2022, you have
what is the first thing I can do?" The
inventories and that's the IEA combined
States of release of about 400 million
inventories, but if you put this in a
understand the numbers for the
day of supply goes through the Strait of
they can reroute some of that, but 16
be rerouted. So, if you are countries
it's the Iraq, Kuwait, uh Qatar, UAE,
Yes, if you cannot export your
all, we don't know how long it will
Let me start stockpiling this in our,
exactly what they did. But, because
have that much storage capacity.
March 1st when we issued the report,
has 4 days before Iraq runs out of
have to cut production have no other
Because oil is a chemical, it's acid,
not like milk when you can pour it in
and that's what they did. 3 days later
To answer your question, what is the
2026 show that every 1 million barrel
per day, $4. If we're losing 16, you
We started with the fair value, meaning
fundamentals in February of this year
worth fair value, Brent was 61. 61 + 64
If all 16 million barrels per day of
be lost. So, what is the market pricing
receiving most from the clients is,
me 125, why are we trading at 100?"
calculation. As fair value 61, today
very, very easy. 101 - 61, it gives you
pricing in that only 10 million barrels
instead of 16. Meaning, the market tells
that is temporary." And if you look at
only, you know, it's very, very steep.
between the very, very front of the
which is the biggest since, you know,
price is already $80. So, the market
million barrels per day of disruption,
is business as usual, and we'll see $80
pricing in at the moment.
of conditions. You think that 125 is
upper bound with with the disruptions
that out, but you're saying that's
us, the red line is actually 90. So,
noticing the demand softens very very
Asia Southeast Asia India is very
general the emerging markets if you take
actually on net net importers of oil. A
they are net importers and higher oil
them and so 90 actually is the red line.
inventories they can last
Vietnam Taiwan Malaysia Indonesia those
inventories and so those are
pain and we already see
of the Asian countries they started
have diesel yes so you know talks about
down in Japan and in Taiwan because
naphtha and LPG which is the feedstock
out of that. A lot of that what we're
they're making statements that this is
get reopened immediately
a lot of inventories but my advice to
summer vacations you have to buy your
May because the prices are already much
doubled since the start of the war
who don't know it basically means people
know closing schools in certain
destruction is really realistic? I mean
driving people need to do like there's
know lucky us that we have example 2020
so 60% of oil demand is moving people
what stopped during COVID, yes?
things stopped, yes? So, at that time,
barrels per day of demand just
match that and cut 7 million barrels per
So, instead of flying to Europe for
break, you stay at home because it's
That's a demand destruction for you
petrochemicals, you pretty much say,
my my factory." So, that's another one.
right? Is that you have both high
would have to say, to to reopen the
and that's why I applied such a low
in 2026 is just because
are so big that you have The only
will there always be a fear in the back
crossed again, and will that permanently
okay, so fair value is fair value, yes?
particular risk in this regions that you
maybe we should be applying $5 premium
do we think about that? But in general,
the weekend in the news, is that it does
Strait of Hormuz might become
Yes, so what Iran said is like, "Listen,
perceive as friendly, there countries
countries that we perceive as you know,
that, you know, we might consider, you
through the strait. And so, and you hear
negotiating with Iran and say, "Okay,
general, if you look at the numbers,
volumes through the Strait of Hormuz.
countries like Japan is right there on
countries that they don't have
have to import that. So, you know, are
are they going to be considered? Uh is
those volumes? So, I think the market
to answer and to see exactly how we're
yes, you can make an argument that there
So, the end of last year you were
in its outlook that
come down this year. You were talking
$40 range. And a lot of what you cited
that although demand was continuing to
coming on.
does this conflict kind of fundamentally
think that we still live in a world
sort of been
oil and other fossil fuels coming. And
trajectory
really like
was made in 2023, in early 2023, that we
and we concluded that the very high oil
remember, it oil averaged $100 in 2022
did exactly what they're supposed to do
incentivized a lot of supply,
producers like Brazil, Argentina. Why is
cheap. And then you had the United
very high oil prices in '21 and '22. And
supply coming. All the supply will be
market. By the end of 2025 we'll see a
2023.
happened. So for 2026 we said, "Listen,
2026 because in commodities markets if
build up inventories. Those inventories
carrying all of that stockpile into
So yes, now our numbers were showing is
market." Fair value we're talking about,
all the worlds because I was giving my
demand is bad, but because there's so
bullish call for the global economy,
So where we sit today? First of all, now
is draining down inventories. So the
slowly this is going to be drained.
it's very quick.
production. So it depends on the
a while. It can take up to 2 years. In
between 3 months to a year. But in the
take very very quickly. They can restart
little bit. So hence everything, to your
war ends. The question is when the
constrained by how much you can store.
it change the mind of the investor? Yes,
opens fully.
definition, that means that the
produce at 100%.
the it'll gather like oil executives and
industries, you know, power, energy,
renewables. And the big topic last year
demands of AI and data centers for
industry felt like because all this
were going to be a big part of that
……（接近结尾）……
home here in New York.
any help from
from Iran to do
think that makes a lot more sense to me.
prices.
distillates, like other oil products
that are particularly disrupted by this
conflict? You mentioned naphtha. Um
maybe you could share with us like
exactly what
you know, kind of
where that's most useful. And are there
other things like that that we should
really be paying attention to? I know
fertilizer is obviously
um
been caught up in this um
you know, other industrial commodities.
What other things should we be worried
about?
remind my clients and the market is we
do not consume crude oil. We consume
gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and all
other stuff, heating fuel oil. We don't
consume crude. So, when we pay attention
to crude,
I understand why because it's you know,
we see the Brent price at $100 and we
panic, but realistically we don't
consume crude. We consume all other
products.
when we come back, we've got a couple
more questions for Natasha about
commodities that people might be trading
on their own.
So, Natasha, we know a lot of amateurs
have been getting into trading gold
recently. Uh that's something that we've
been seeing a lot of, and we've talked a
lot about on this podcast. But now we're
also seeing crypto traders jumping into
perpetual oil futures. Our colleague had
an article about that.
starting to talk to me about, "Oh, I
traded some oil." And I don't know, that
seems
pretty dicey for somebody to just try.
You've been around these markets for a
long time.
Uh so well, you you should add silver to
the list. Yes, and we saw what happened.
Yes, in December and then January in the
silver futures as well. So, yes, we
definitely see more and more interest of
um you know, the so-called tourists,
yes, coming into the market. Um so, a
lot of people in my gym, for example, uh
trading oil as well. So,
asking for advice?
are, guys. And
uh so, yes, so it's
definitely there's a lot of interest,
especially when you see this vol- you
know, the volatility in the markets, you
know, when
gold was, you know, start trading the
first time broke to five from five, you
know, 5,000, from 4,000, there was a
very big spike in the price. We saw a
lot of interest, you know, silver
clearly, you know, when we had this move
from $80 to $120.
And now the volatility in the oil prices
is getting is gaining a lot of interest
as well.
the market? I know that, you know, the
Journal had a story that oil executives
went to the White House and they were
saying that like they were worried that
speculators would sort of drive up, you
know, oil futures and and sort of you
know, disrupt the market in that way.
Could all of this retail trading start
to factor into to to to the price of
oil?
substantially smaller market. Gold,
hard. Oil is the biggest market and so,
it's no, my argument would be it's
actually very hard, you know, from those
small retail investors to have
implications for the market.
somewhat comforting, actually.
careful with yes.
have to ask, what is your forecast or
call for the future of the price of
gold? We've obviously seen it run up to
incredible levels, $5,000,
more unthinkable things. Where do you
think it'll go from here?
bullish gold call was made in 2022
November 2022. That's when we put the
buy gold recommendation. It was trading
at $1,700 then. And so, our view was
that
we're very bullish and you should hold
it for 4 years. So,
um the moment we actually think that
it's it's even longer. So, that you
know, our advice is at least through
2028.
You should be sitting on this, you know,
bullish recommendation. And so, our
target right now is 6,300. We're trading
at 5,000. Um so, we we continue to be
very bullish.
interesting conversation. Thanks so much
for joining us.