TITLE: ChatGPT – The Super Assistant Era | BG2 Guest Interview
CHANNEL: Bg2 Pod
DURATION_S: 3821  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-15T16:25:13+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MIKej1HCRW0
SHA256: 6614ca272df9a390790894eeb6f31399f59b3631c4c16b451866c8d0e42cb4aa

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [90%] to us now. 90% left to go, right?
  [10%] &gt;&gt; We've got about 10% of the world coming
  [5.3] we just made um with 5.3, 5.4, etc.
  [5.4] we just made um with 5.3, 5.4, etc.
  [100%] &gt;&gt; 100%.
  [3.5] step changes like going from um GBD 3.5
  [2015] the 2015 era,

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
Chat GPT originally was entirely free
and the reason for that was that it was
intended to be a demo and we were going
to wind it down after a month.
viral and people loved the demo and it
was actually a product and but we
realized to be a product you can't take
the product down every time you're at
capacity. So we you ship subscriptions
simply because it could shape the
demand. It was a way of gracefully
turning users away when we had to turn
away someone. You know, you guys are at
900 million VT active users now, and
that growth has been incredible. The
next billion users, where they where are
they going to come from?
to us now. 90% left to go, right?
There's so much more opportunity.
had uh quite the journey from Germany to
the US for Brown.
groceries in 30 minutes to now
delivering AGI to billions. I'm sure
that was the plan all along.
What how did you get to OpenAI? I know
it's a fun fun story. And your your
three and a half years or so at OpenI,
how have they gone? The only through
light in how any sort of employment
decision has been entirely people based.
So I don't claim any credit for for uh
joining OpenAI um or predicting chat GPT
or anything like it. But um I uh um hit
up someone who I admire a lot who I got
got to know at Dropbox. um Joanne who uh
worked worked here at the time and she
uh I asked her to get off the Dolly 2
wait list and she told me I had an
interview if I wanted to get off the
wait list. So um I took the bait and got
totally nerd sniped in the process and
and here I am.
will get you.
big uh the big
super cycle we're in is is is Chad GPT.
Now, I assume over a billion users on
the monthly side, 900 million weekly
active users that recently reported up
from zero three and a half years ago. Uh
you could have, if I imagine what the
dashboard of Nick Turley looks like, it
could have users, it could have paying
subscribers, it could have daily active
users, it could have retention,
engagement. I mean, there's like 15
things, maybe all of them. What what is
your northstar? How do you how do you op
what are you optimizing for? Uh what is
Nick looking at in his daily dashboard?
such a young product. It's been to your
point three and a half years. And um
this kind of question, it kind of
changes as as as you evolve and you and
you grow up and you ask yourself, you
know, what are we really building here?
And uh to this day, right, then want to
build a super assistant that can
actually help people achieve their
goals.
is like is our product doing that? Is it
actually helping you do the thing that
you're, you know, um coming to the
product to do? And it's so different for
different people, right? Some people um
are are trying to get healthy, other
people are trying to start a company,
different things that you might be
doing. Um, and the true measure of
success is whether or not that we're
helping you do that. And um, obviously
we look at WAU in particular because,
you know, we want to know if you're
coming back to the product. We look at
retention. Um, but we, you know, we we
look at, um, all kinds of stuff in
aggregate because really there isn't
like this one single thing that you can
optimize for.
points
like distribute the 100 units across
these metrics in order of importance for
you right this second? It's a good
question. I I care a lot about long-term
retention and I would put all my points
there. Um because um I'm really proud of
the retention stats we have.
values, whether or not people are coming
back in three months because that means
you're really solving their problems.
And
from that. Um
on those things directly. And we've
we've had a lot of success making very
principled decisions u on this stuff.
Like one good example is you GPD4 used
to be behind a pay pay wall because we
couldn't serve it to everyone and then
we had GPD4 which was a total
breakthrough
and um
that ended up being totally revenue
positive and retention positive because
it just provided access to the tech and
I think when you make your decisions
that way and you focus on the customer
revenue obviously follows too.
numbers. You know, I I posted this chart
uh yesterday on the data that we have,
you know, from a third party. The
retention curves for chat GPD are
smiling. Look at that. Just like that.
And that is a rare that is a very rare
occurrence, you know, as as we know. And
um why why do you think like if you were
to give us a narrative on that smile
curve? What is the why do these smile
curves exist? What are you seeing in
Chad GPD that has people who have who
have maybe turned off for a couple of
weeks or months coming back and why are
they coming back?
know, the way you build a retentive
product is lots and lots of little
things and really trying to make it
better systematically. I will say that
you know with AI and in particular chat
GBT I found that it takes people some
time to really understand all the parts
of their life they can delegate right
and I think many users for that it's a
multi-month process for them to
understand how can this thing help me
and what are all the different ways
about some of the breakthroughs and
levers we've had um things like search
and personalization they they have
helped solve those user problems because
um you know search provides way more
daily value to you.
worky product. You know we'd see usage
go down on the weekend. We usage you
know go down during the summer months
when a lot of people were off from work
The vast majority is mobile and we see
all these personal use cases and I think
search was a big investment that got us
there
more relevant for you right because it
gets to know you over time. you get to
know it. Um and um those are two things
that have materially moved um the way
that you know people come back to the
product. But um there's lots more to do.
I'm not resting on our um retention
stats even though, um we're obviously
very proud.
other thing that I I got wrong about
Chad GPT was this is two two and a half
years ago. I was like, well, you know,
let's look at who's going to win this
consumer AI race. You typically these
consumer markets are winner or take most
winner or take all. Look at search.
Google has near 90% plus market share.
Three and a half, four trillion market
cap.
same thing with Meta. I was like, well,
AI, Meta has all the distribution.
Google's got all the distribution.
They've got 34 billion users. Well, it
would be a flick of a switch for them to
roll out their AI. But I was wrong.
That's not what happened. Chad GPT turns
out uh you know you guys are at 900
million VT active users now and um that
growth has been incredible clearly
distribution was not enough right
what are the levers for us that have
gotten us to the scale is it model
quality is it you know product quality
is it you know features is it the
experience or product improvements like
memory and personalization or search
like
drove historical
We've got about 10% of the world coming
to us now. 90% left to go, right? So
there's so much more opportunity to to
to re reach more people and introduce
them to the way that AI can can can
look backwards and I only say that
because like the next billion users
might be very different in terms of like
how you um engage and reach and provide
value,
roughly sort of
sort of classic friction removal type of
work. Like one of our biggest um
um moments when you look at pure impact
um was you know removing the
authentication wall
think that was his feedback from like
day one
into the chatbt but it's like stuff like
that that you do for any product and it
does matter some things never change
right
another third or so isort
core product investments and they're
really typically things that we've done
together between research and product.
So
good examples of that where we came
together and we figured out not just
……（中部抽样）……
UIUX evolution but also how to postrain
queries um where you're um you know
back then to GPD4 then going from GPD4
we just made um with 5.3, 5.4, etc.
access
war. If I was a consumer today in the
distribution, um and us by the by the by
about
introduce the benefits of AI uh the
world like actually helping them achieve
we're going to go beyond pure chat bots
it's a it's it's a power tool right you
Twitter and you learn about another one
affordance.
needs to feel more like software like or
problems to AI or don't quite know where
make on on top of the current tech. And
people. It's relevant for the people who
people's behalf without them even
you know
last year. So he's he's we're very
getting the answer. you can now get the
have a pulse that runs weekly
going to look like?
like a super assistant. Um because I
you search tool or browser in the same
aim to build. Um
The models weren't quite good enough to
version of chatb agent, it was the
point where people try to use it for
if they didn't initially work like chat
that point with general purpose agents
climb the hill on we can make them
because
if the eye understood your your goals
connected to your life and it can't take
actually, you know, um detecting, hey,
compound and we need to nail multiple of
more minutes but um
first is the uh domain specific agents,
code and then unfortunately got very
and if you just take what people are
properties that code has. It's testable.
it's very hard to train people into like
sort of retraining and um
there's there's things you don't even
totally start working in the background
if it's aligned with your with your
might require us to go beyond chat bots.
the fact that you can express yourself
that's here to stay but
thing that that'll change I think is
like here's your your your you know plan
And and and and I think chat will always
can evolve. So hopefully that's a very
unsatisfied intent from people where
three years ago they were at least
automatically. It's fully privacy
worse.
random set of users to just figure out
know deliver on
value on on their $200 subscription.
your focus like maybe in those
fact, our non-users too because you
who doesn't care about AI at all.
people can actually gro. And then the
um on our own
look look at all kinds of different
who don't understand technology at all.
disclosed
up to it but um it means that building
discovery
what's possible. um that is an
these different segments very seriously
very informative.
but I know you were thinking about it a
of great value to price that product
right chat GPT originally was entirely
realized to be a product you can't take
and it felt like the fairest and most
do we keep the subscription thing or do
the plus plan. And so, you know, the way
our tech. Um,
little bit of time to turn that into
current era having unlimited plan is
There's a reason you can't buy that,
it didn't change given the magnitude and
get um the casual users into the into
an off we want to pro provide an
people don't
bringing chatt and our intelligence most
ads the ads piece is um is is has been a
times in my my history at OpenAI, and
to really engage the company on if we
you know is is is our ability to bring
important that the answer of chatbt be
gotten started um like we're very early
disable ads or turn off ads, but it's
switching gears, Nick, um something you
right? A lot of India, a lot of the iOS
Look, um I think partnerships are a
considering something um like a
click on things, you can get them to tap
retain them on chatbt. So for that
um for many many folks and I want to
about, you know, an a trade-off that you
delivering on the people on on the use
came to be it was a totally open-ended
discover and the world to discover what
you both have such amazing traction with
that matter, latency, um reliability, um
right. And for that reason, it's one of
you guys uh allocate the GPUs?
that point, where
zero sum resource out there.
and table stakes.
breakthrough capabilities that are
uh um to find out
obviously on the research side, there's
topic that we're continuously getting
you know we obviously have been
you know it correlates pretty well with
demand keeps going up even as prices go
but uh but you're saying well that's
functions to OpenAI. Um in the world
figure out how do you make very very
you do your planning. So I think
user over time.
a couple of quick ones on the present
appear that Chad Gibbly helped us paint.
those use cases that exist organically
exists in chat um today is it's not it's
just read you know walls of text.
a as a um as an assistant to find the
from the ecosystem to be part of the the
Chad GPT and and tell us something about
that people think of chat GPT
things through with
all the way to a work setting where you
brain um of sorts and
earlier in task etc. I think the more
highstakes thing I do with Chad GPT is
right if you have a really specific
aren't always the most confident about
making Chad GPT. It's literally getting
this a lot and um because spiritually
thank you to the village.
Look, it's the best time in history to
mission, it's probably focus because of
um and on the things that really matter
because, you know, we're not static,
important to us that we evolve the
the the dynamic of being copied
think our unique ability has been to
of this product as. you know, last uh
Gemini and us delaying ads and health
you can imagine when you're in a place
together um um to solve a problem
that talking to the model feels um
normally get to work with on making the
to do real knowledge work
to be a special thing but it is a tool I
certainly more focused than we were six
assistant and um
users is certainly one of them. Um
as we used to call it is is a tool.
it's okay to drop your other stuff and
equivalent.
Peter to the team. Um, tell us a little
excited to have another German speaker
in in many ways um a vision that that
pattern that feels a little bit more
there's a lot of elements of of of of
the company and figure out what we can
a product that you love, you think you
effect effectively professional services
you're going and either acquiring or or
and you're actually going in and
people who work in labs and
……（接近结尾）……
Honestly, I mean there this is the whole
thing about slot, right? There's so much
going to be a permanent need for high
quality, trusted, authoritative content
and tools like CHAP can help you
discover that content.
content is is is also here to stay.
your AGI feel the AGI moment? When did
you feel it? I've had so many honestly.
Um, and it's
it's definitely not stopped. Um,
a few weeks or so after I joined Open
AI, GP24 had finished training
actually it didn't impress me at all.
Um, nor anyone else that week because it
kind of didn't work. And it's because we
hadn't figured out how to post train it.
And uh I think seeing it go from
kind of wait is this really a thing or
was GPT3 kind of it to wow actually this
is an entire step change with what felt
to me at the time who didn't understand
much about AI at all as like just some
tweaks or some a little bit of final
stretch work
realize that you might it might not look
like we are close
probably are. Um,
really, you know, there was two things
that GBD4 did that
felt like AGI to me. One is it could do
poetry and I didn't think it was
possible for AI model to do poetry. It
just kind of
didn't feel like
produce code that actually worked and
compiled. And then my next moment where
I stared at the ceiling just in awe was
when I realized GPD4 could just simulate
an entire computer terminal um um like a
full computer with commands etc. And I'm
like, wait, how would this be imbued in
a in a in a language model? And there's
been so many moments since then,
honestly. Like reasoning was a moment.
One of the moments was when I think Mark
and I were uh uh giving a demo of
reasoning uh in front of the um whole
company. Um and um this was a moment
where we were still trying to kind of
find use cases that were hard enough for
the AI for the reasoning to, you know,
make it make a difference. We're way
past that point, we know. But at the
time, you know, I think we were having
to do a puzzle in front of everyone and
um I think one of the moments that made
me totally feel the AGI is like um we
were in the middle of the demo and
everyone started laughing and I was
like, "Wait, what what is funny?" And
then I stared at the screen because we
were showing this chain of thought as it
was streaming out of the model. Um and
the model swore and said like, "Oh, damn
it. May I have to adjust because I
realized I had made a mistake in the
puzzle." And uh the fact that they did
that, but in particular the fact that it
did that in a way that was entirely
emergent from the you know RL process
completely blew my mind um and you know
made me you know um uh feel quite humble
about what else these models might be
able to do. So um that was one of those
moments.
people use codecs like like watching
people have
because they don't want the task to end.
Um yeah uh watching people who have
never coded in their life make stuff and
bring ideas uh to life that feel feels
like an AGM. So honestly it just it's
just accelerating for me and it doesn't
wear off at all. Um and uh everyone has
a different thing obviously but those
are were some of mine.
there was a product called kite. I don't
know if you remember it was for software
engineers. It was like an AI coding
product. Mhm.
hunger for for for for for personal AI
and you know nothing happened for 10
years and then everything happened in
the last 10 months.
it's it's actually quite
end up I think um in terms of the kind
of product form factors you're going to
have but to know when it happens it's
really hard for me to make statements on
anything between
around, you know, um um
know, now and three months is a tight
enough window.
to stick to the three-month plan more or
less. Um um though, you know, my team
would probably tell me we don't, but I I
try. But yeah, anything in between three
months and eventually is is is
difficult. Um
it. You've got a lot going on. This was
a total treat. We so excited to see all
the great products you release for us.
Um,
we can do anything to be of help, let us
know.
having me.
As a reminder to everybody, just our
opinions, not investment advice.