TITLE: Jensen Huang: NVIDIA - The $4 Trillion Company & the AI Revolution | Lex Fridman Podcast #494
CHANNEL: Lex Fridman
DURATION_S: 8759  DENSITY: high  REQ summary=4 core=5
PUBLISHED: 2026-03-23T16:24:14+00:00  URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vif8NQcjVf0
SHA256: 2240fc03524801cea00e3e02266453285c6ed8ccc357a3488ad2a3c32e1d07de

=== NOTABLE CANDIDATE NUMBERS (verbatim in transcript; use these for key_facts) ===
  [100%] declared it 100% buy in but that's what
  [50%] computation represents 50% of the
  [1.3] into our 1.3 million component rack.
  [10000] added, you know, 10,000 computers, but
  [99%] Well, 99% of the time we're nowhere near
  [1.5] went down to like $1.5 billion. And so,
  [35%] consumed and we were a 35% gross margin
  [13.2] 13.2 and so we're invol evolving the
  [60%] it 60% of peak. And so 99% of the time
  [80%] to have to back you down to about 80%.
  [200000] months. It's now at 200,000 GPUs and
  [1.2] 40 racks 1.2 two quadrillion
  [20000] transistors, nearly 20,000 Nvidia dies,
  [1100] over 1100 Ruben GPUs, 60 exoflops, 10
  [1300] components, 1300 chips, 4,000 lb crammed
  [4000] components, 1300 chips, 4,000 lb crammed
  [2013] There's a story uh that in 2013 the
  [43000] CUDA successful. It was 43,000 people
  [1015] effective. So if for the last 1015 years
  [1000] to pay $1,000 per million tokens is just
  [10%] could just take 10% share, they could be
  [2077] mean, Cyberpunk 2077,
  [100000] you know 100,000 of those agents um
  [0%] building Nvidia 0%.
  [2019] computer vision was superhuman in 2019
  [2020] 20 maybe maybe a little bit later 2020.
  [3000] enable 43 3,000 amazing people to make

=== TRANSCRIPT EXCERPT ===
The following is a conversation with
Jensen Huang, CEO of Nvidia, one of the
most important and influential companies
in the history of human civilization.
Nvidia is the engine powering the AI
revolution, and a lot of its success can
be directly attributed to Jensen's sheer
force of will and his many brilliant
bets and decisions as a leader,
engineer, and innovator.
This is the Lex Freedman podcast. And
now, dear friends, here's Jensen Huang.
You've propelled Nvidia into a uh new
era in AI, moving beyond his focus on
chip scale design to now rack scale
design. And I think it's fair to say
that uh winning for Nvidia for a long
time used to be about building the best
GPU possible. and you still do, but now
you've expanded that to extreme
co-design of GPU, CPU, memory,
networking, storage, power, cooling,
software, the rack itself, the pod that
you've announced, and even the data
center. So, let's talk about extreme
code design. What uh is the hardest part
of uh co-designing a system with that
many complex components and design
variables?
of all, the reason why extreme code
design is necessary is because the
problem no longer fits inside one
computer to be accelerated by one GPU.
[gasps]
The problem that you're trying to solve
is you would like to go faster than the
number of computers that you add. So you
added, you know, 10,000 computers, but
you would like it to go a million times
faster.
Then all of a sudden you have to take
the algorithm,
you have to break up the algorithm, you
have to refactor it, you have to shard
the pipeline, you have to shard the
data, you have to shard the model.
[gasps]
Now all of a sudden when you distribute
the problem this way, not just scaling
up the problem, but you're distributing
the problem, then everything gets in the
way. This is the AMD doll's law problem
where the amount of speed up you have
for something depends on how much of the
total workload it is. And so if
computation represents 50% of the
problem and I sped up computation
infinitely like a million times you know
I only sped up the total workload by a
factor of two. Now all of a sudden, not
only do you have to distribute the
computation, you have to, you know,
shard the pipeline somehow. Uh you also
have to solve the networking problem
because you've got all of these
computers are all connected together.
And so distributed computing at the
scale that we do,
the CPU is a problem, the GPU is a
problem, the networking is a problem,
the switching is a problem, and
distributing the workload across all
these computers are a problem.
It's just a massively complex computer
science problem and so we just got to
bring every technology to bear otherwise
we scale up linearly
or we scale up based on uh the
capabilities of Moore's law which has
largely slowed because Dernard's scaling
has slowed. I'm sure there's trade-offs
there. Plus you have a completely
disperate disciplines here. I'm sure you
have specialists in each one of these
high bandwidth memory, the the
networking, the NVL link, the nyx, the
the optics and the copper that you're
doing, the power delivery, the cooling,
all that. I mean, there's like world
experts in each of those. How do you get
them in a room together to figure out
the process of the specialists and the
generalists? Like, how do you put
together the rack when you know this the
set of things you have to shove into a
rack together? Yeah,
designing [clears throat] it all
together?
what is extreme code design? You're
we're optimizing across the entire stack
of software from architectures to chips
to systems to system software to the
algorithms to the applications. That's
one layer. The second thing that you and
I just talked about is goes beyond CPUs
and GPUs and networking chips and scale
up switches and scale out switches. And
then of course you got to include power
and cooling and all of that because you
know all these computers are extremely
extremely power power hungry. They do a
lot of work and they're very energy
efficient but they in aggregate still
consume a lot of power. And so that's
one the first question is what is it?
The second question is why is it and we
just spoke about the reason you know you
want to distribute the workload so that
you can exceed the benefit of just
increasing the number of computers and
and then the third question is how is it
how do you do it
miracle of this company you know when
you're designing a computer you have to
have operating system of computers when
you're designing a company you should
first think about what is it that you
want the company to produce. You know, I
see a lot of companies organization
charts and they all look the same.
Hamburger organization charts, software
organization charts and car company
organization charts. They all look the
same. And it doesn't make any sense to
me. You know, the goal of au of a
company is to be the machinery, the
mechanism, the system that produces
the output and that output is the
product that we like to create. It is
also designed the architecture of the
company should reflect the environment
by which it exists. It almost directly
says what you should do with the
organization. My direct staff is 60
people. You know, I don't have one-on-
ones with them because it's impossible.
You can't have you can't have 60 people
on your staff if you're, you know, going
to get work done. And
have more. Yeah. [laughter]
engineering.
almost all of them. There's experts in
memory, there's experts in CPUs, there's
experts in optical all Yeah. GPUs and
architecture, algorithms, design.
entire stack and you're having to do
like intense discussions about the
design of the entire stack
That's why I don't do one-on- ones. We
present a problem and all of us attack
it, you know, because we're doing
extreme code design and literally the
company is doing extreme code design all
the time.
particular component like cooling
networking, everybody's listening in.
doesn't work for the for the power
distribution. This doesn't exactly
memory. This doesn't work for this.
tune out.
for that is because because the people
who are on the staff, they they know
when to pay attention.
they could have contributed to, they
didn't contribute to. I'm going to call
them out, you know, and so, hey, come
on, let's get in here.
company that's adapting to the
environment.
adapting sort of secretly
maybe the early deep learning revolution
to we're now going to start thinking of
it as an AI factory. What does Nvidia do
is produces AI. Let's build a factory
that makes AI
through it just systematically. Um we
started out as as an accelerator company
but the problem with accelerators is
that the application domain is too
narrow. It has the benefit of being
incredibly optimized for the job. You
know, any specialist has that benefit.
The problem with intense specialization
is that of course your market reach is
narrower,
but that's that's even fine. The problem
is the market size also dictates your
R&amp;D capacity. And your R&amp;D capacity
ultimately dictates the influence and
impact that you can possibly have in
computing. And so when we first started
out in acceler as an accelerator, very
specific accelerator, we always we
always knew that that had that was going
to be our first step. We had to find a
way to become accelerated computing. But
the problem is when you become a
computing company, it's too general
purpose and it takes away from your
specialization. It turn I connected two
words
that are actually have fundamental
tension. The better computing company we
become, the worse we become as a
specialist. The more of a specialist,
the less capacity we have to do overall
computing. And so the that and I
connected those two words together on
……（中部抽样）……
purpose that the company has to find
working on on um stream processors and
hard to do because it cost the company
be spoiler alert one of the most
because you know it could perform
beautifully architected
new computing architecture into the
put a supercomputer in the hands of
much cost, but it was something we
going
increased our cost by 50% and that con
were able to make those decisions to
must exist. Um and and um and you know,
just never I never do things that way.
day I'm doing that with my board I'm
day that I announce it um
about you know you announce something
years. You guys just go back and oh my
and optimize, but then we open up the
test time, and agentic scaling. What do
results in a smarter AI and so that was
this is synthetic. You know, I it's
training is no longer limited by data is
commoditize and you know everybody can
prior experiences, you know, or or or
agentic person and that one agentic
agents. And so, you know, I you have
thing and it's compute. But there's a
to anticipate what likely is going to
learn from everybody and have a have a
13.2 and so we're invol evolving the
storage accelerators. It has this
that that comes from what? From the
present, and future before I make it
years, let's say be a humanoid robot. If
instantly, becomes an expert, and so
you will find it two years ago.
agentic systems what chat GPT did for
things associated with that. And we as a
given by enterprise. And then we
extreme code design so that we can
price is going up, but our token
advanced packaging like cos and uh SK HX
of practically the entire IT industry
And so so I I inform them that way like
the future. And at first it sounded
part of my job is to
there are, but it works somehow.
this. What's important for us?" Um
recognize you're going to move one and
ships them two, three tons at a time per
inference is coming. It's going to be a
bottlenecks? I mean what are the biggest
for a little bit. Uh what are your hopes
they're just sitting idle. But they have
little part of it or we just have our
their excess. It's just sitting there.
things, you got somebody, you have
69s and so I think I think the first
don't have that problem and so you know
you have if you're willing to take power
about his approach that's instructive to
so so he he has he has the he has the
you overcome a lot of previous this is
question like okay so uh can this be
[clears throat]
a a state of mind I guess a method that
constraints separately.
before we uh do anything and and we test
it's 74 is in the first place and let's
I mean the pod the Vera Rubin pod that
for in trying to design things?
if it was like an Olympics of uh
products. whole bunch of reasons for
China is not one giant economic country.
back and forth between they're
rapid incredibly great talent rapid
at a precisely the time when technology
inside Perplexity. look stuff up.
step by step to diffusion. And so um the
hard to do research and it's hard to
tools and models and sub aents that were
use it for discovering drugs. And so
incredible engineering work that they
packaging the 3D packaging the silicon
all the time and somehow they're running
advancing technology
this uh intangible called trust. I trust
Uh and you said you already had a job.
was really important work
biggest moat as the folks in the tech
technology. The technology of course was
talking about. No company in history had
country.
in the final analysis is our first
that you have this one architecture and
ampear today. I pick up the chip.
up.
announced that
that back down to earth. It's just you
years out, 20 years out? [gasps] So, uh,
like that and so we could we could do uh
to support this podcast. Go to
inevitable. And let me explain why.
file retrieving system. That's what a
if this way of computation, this way of
about it but I think the last five years
We're now seeing not only is this
only when. And so so now we're seeing
to discover new drugs, new products, new
going to be a lot lot bigger and then
do so? And surely we will have the
Somebody told me that you'll never be,
because there's nobody I could take
that's the actual product is really
about December where people really woke
getting stuff done so fast.
embarrassment, the near-death company
leadership for our nation. Technology
and this is a real real um a real gift
positively or even even um uh through
you either do it or did you get somebody
I've told that someone who could do
and and you know you want to you don't
going, you know, and and then you get
at the time. Mostly it's just because
um being being uh have the mind of a
the trials and tribulations and all the
can't let now you just got to turn on
three human characteristics.
I'm humble about about about everything,
sort of be wrong in your own head enough
stuff that that I'm reasoning about
reasoning through. Let me tell you, let
it with a constant open-mindedness where
was, you know, cleaning toilets. So,
friend that I'm uh talking with you. He
um looks similar and they're all
DLSS5 also lets because it's the system
they do and then we're going to
worlds.
think is the greatest or most
Virtual Fighter. And so we we're great
favorite [laughter] games just walk
ridiculous definition perhaps of what
this 5 10 15 20 years away?
it is, but I I couldn't have predicted
application that you know feeds your
been doing my job for 33 years. I'm the
computer vision has been superhuman. And
why is because the purpose of a
purpose of a software engineer and the
I believe that is the definition coding
their
software.
strategies and um formulating corporate
relates to that. And and so
uh are worried about their jobs, have a
artificial intelligence, there's going
suffering. So my first recommendation
in using AI. I would hire the one who's
would absolutely use AI. If I were a
to use AI to automate those tasks. And
literally ask and it's going to give you
for you. Where do I go? What where do I
and that's the you know of course the
different outcome
how amazing everything is how deeply we
not a mysterious word. Intelligence has
And I'm surrounded by intelligent people
Humanity is not a not specified
commoditized because we've spoken about
democratization of intelligence, this
Uh,
……（接近结尾）……
humanity? About the future of humanity
when you look out and you think about
the future quite a bit when you look out
10, 20, 50, 100 years from now, what
gives you hope? I I've always had I've
always had uh uh great confidence in in
the in the kindness
uh the generosity
uh
um the compassion, the human capacity.
I've always been extremely confident of
that. sometimes um
more so than I should and and I I get
taken advantage of. But it doesn't it
doesn't ever cause me not to. I start
with always
uh that that people want want to do
good. People want to um uh help others
and
uh vastly I am proven right,
constantly proven right and and often
uh exceeds my expectations
and and so I have complete confidence in
the human capacity.
I think the the the thing that the
things that give me incredible hope
is what I see as as I extrapolate as I
what I see now is possible and as I
extrapolate
um based on the things that we're doing
what will very likely happen
things that we want to solve there's so
many problems we want to solve there's
so any things that we want to build.
There's so many good things that we want
to do that are now within our reach and
within the reach of my my lifetime. You
just can't possibly not be romantic
about that. You know what I'm saying?
about that? the the the fact that that
there is a there it's a reasonable thing
to expect the end of disease. It's a
reasonable thing to expect. It's a
reasonable thing to expect that
pollution will be drastically reduced.
It's a reasonable thing to expect that
traveling at the speed of light is
actually in our future. And then you
know not not for long distances but
short distances you know you people ask
me how you well first of all very soon
I'm going to put a humanoid on a
spaceship and it's going to be you know
my humanoid and and we're going to send
it out as soon you know as soon as
possible and it's going to keep
improving and enhancing along the flight
all of the all of my consciousness has
already been you know so much of my life
has been uploaded in the internet take
all my inbox take everything that I've
done, everything I've said, you know,
it's been collect and be becoming my AI
and um I'm just, you know, when the time
comes, you know, we just send that at
the speed of light, catch up with my
robot.
[laughter]
Oh, that's brilliant. I mean, but for
me, that's sort of application focused,
[laughter]
but also for me the curiosity
uh maxing perspective, I just all of
those mysteries. It's so much
fascinating scientific questions there.
Understanding the biological machine is
is right around the corner. It's it's
not 10 years. It's 5 years probably.
the human mind and cracking physics,
theoretical physics open. It's so
exciting.
be awesome
everything you've done over the years.
Thank you for everything you're doing
for the world. Thank you for being who
you are. Uh, I can tell you're a great
human being and uh, I wish you
incredible success this year. I can't
wait as a fan. I can't wait to see what
you do next and hopefully I'll see you
in Taiwan. And thank you so much for
talking today.
and also if I could just say one more
thing
that you do, the depth, the the respect
that you go through with and the
research that you do uh to reveal, you
know, for all of us, uh the the amazing
people that you've interviewed over the
years. I've enjoyed I I've enjoyed them
immensely and and and as an innovator to
have created this long form unbelievable
and and yet you know it's just
captivating. So anyways, thank you for
everything you do.
to this conversation with Jensen Kuang.
To support this podcast, please check
out our sponsors in the description
where you can also find links to contact
me, ask questions, give feedback, and so
on. And now let me leave you with some
words from Alan K.
The best way to predict the future is to
invent it.
Thank you for listening and hope to see
you next time.